{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0 Arial;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang1033\f0\fs20LICENSE INFORMATION\par
\par
The Programs listed below are licensed under the following License Information terms and conditions in addition to the Program license terms previously agreed to by Client and IBM. If Client does not have previously agreed to license terms in effect for the Program, the International License Agreement for Non-Warranted Programs (Z125-5589-05) applies.\par
\par
Program Name (Program Number):\par
IBM Order Management Developer Toolkit (5737-D18)\par
IBM Call Center Developer Toolkit (5737-D18)\par
IBM Store Engagement Developer Toolkit (5737-D18)\par
IBM CPQ Developer Toolkit (5900-A0J)\par
\par
The following standard terms apply to Licensee's use of the Program.\par
\par
Prohibited Uses\par
\par
Licensee may not use or authorize others to use the Program, alone or in combination with other services or products, in support of any of the following high risk activities: design, construction, control, or maintenance of nuclear facilities, mass transit systems, air traffic control systems, automotive control systems, weapons systems, or aircraft navigation or communications, or any other activity where program failure could give rise to a material threat of death or serious personal injury.\par
\par
Supporting Programs\par
\par
Licensee is authorized to install and use the Supporting Programs identified below. Licensee is authorized to install and use such Supporting Programs only to support Licensee's use of the Principal Program under this Agreement. The phrase "to support Licensee's use" would only include those uses that are necessary or otherwise directly related to a licensed use of the Principal Program or another Supporting Program. The Supporting Programs may not be used for any other purpose. A Supporting Program may be accompanied by license terms, and those terms, if any, apply to Licensee's use of that Supporting Program. In the event of conflict, the terms in this License Information document supersede the Supporting Program's terms. Licensee must obtain sufficient entitlements to the Program, as a whole, to cover Licensee's installation and use of all of the Supporting Programs, unless separate entitlements are provided within this License Information document. For example, if this Program were licensed on a PVU (Processor Value Unit) basis and Licensee were to install the Principal Program or a Supporting Program on a 100 PVU machine (physical or virtual) and another Supporting Program on a second 100 PVU machine, Licensee would be required to obtain 200 PVU entitlements to the Program.\par
\par
Supporting Programs:\par
IBM WebSphere Application Server Liberty 18.0\par
IBM MQ Advanced for Developers 9.1\par
IBM DB2 Express-C for Linux and Windows 10.5.0.5\par
IBM Dojo Toolkit 1.9.x\par
IBM Extensions Toolkit for Dojo 1.4.x\par
ExperienceOne Peretz Common UI components 15.3\par
International Components for Unicode for Java 55\par
IBM Eclipse SDK 3.3.0\par
Ext JS 3.x\par
JViews Enterprise 8.8\par
\par
Limited Use Program\par
\par
This Program is supplied only for use with Named Program(s) and/or Service(s) identified below or their successors. Licensee is prohibited from using this Program in connection with any other software or service.\par
\par
Named Program(s) and/or Service(s):\par
IBM Commerce on Cloud\par
IBM Order Management\par
IBM Store Engagement\par
IBM CPQ\par
IBM Call Center\par
\par
Developer Limitation\par
\par
If the Program is designated as for "Developers", the Program can only be deployed as part of Licensee's internal development and unit testing on a developer machine. A developer machine is a physical or virtual desktop environment, running a primary operating system and the Program, both of which are accessible and used by no more than one specified developer. Licensee is not authorized to use the Program for processing production workloads, simulating production workloads or testing scalability of any code, application or system. Licensee is not authorized to use any part of the Program for any other purposes without acquiring the appropriate production entitlements.\par
\par
Development Tool\par
\par
This Program is designed to aid in the development of software applications and systems. Licensee is solely responsible for the applications and systems that it develops by using this Program and assumes all risk and responsibility therefor.\par
\par
Separately Licensed Code\par
\par
The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to the extent they are held to be invalid or unenforceable under the law that governs this license. Each of the components listed below is considered "Separately Licensed Code". IBM Separately Licensed Code is licensed to Licensee under the terms of the applicable third party license agreement(s) set forth in the NON_IBM_LICENSE file(s) that accompanies the Program. Notwithstanding any of the terms in the Agreement, or any other agreement Licensee may have with IBM, the terms of such third party license agreement(s) governs Licensee's use of all Separately Licensed Code unless otherwise noted below.\par
\par
Future Program updates or fixes may contain additional Separately Licensed Code. Such additional Separately Licensed Code and related licenses are listed in another NON_IBM_LICENSE file that accompanies the Program update or fix. Licensee acknowledges that Licensee has read and agrees to the license agreements contained in the NON_IBM_LICENSE file(s). If Licensee does not agree to the terms of these third party license agreements, Licensee may not use the Separately Licensed Code.\par
\par
For Programs acquired under the International Program License Agreement ("IPLA") or International Program License Agreement for Non Warranted Program ("ILAN") and Licensee is the original licensee of the Program, if Licensee does not agree with the third party license agreements, Licensee may return the Program in accordance with the terms of, and within the specified time frames stated in, the "Money-back Guarantee" section of the IPLA or ILAN IBM Agreement.\par
\par
Note: Notwithstanding any of the terms in the third party license agreement, the Agreement, or any other agreement Licensee may have with IBM:\par
(a) IBM provides this Separately Licensed Code to Licensee WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND;\par
(b) IBM DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL EXPRESS AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE WARRANTY OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR INTERFERENCE AND THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, WITH RESPECT TO THE SEPARATELY LICENSED CODE;\par
(c) IBM is not liable to Licensee, and will not defend, indemnify, or hold Licensee harmless for any claims arising from or related to the Separately Licensed Code; and\par
(d) IBM is not liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, punitive or consequential damages including, but not limited to, lost data, lost savings, and lost profits, with respect to the Separately Licensed Code.\par
\par
Notwithstanding these exclusions, in Germany and Austria, IBM's warranty and liability for the Separately Licensed Code is governed only by the respective terms applicable for Germany and Austria in IBM license agreements.\par
\par
Note: IBM may provide limited support for some Separately Licensed Code. If such support is available, the details and any additional terms related to such support will be set forth in the License Information document.\par
\par
The following are Separately Licensed Code:\par
acl  2.2.51  GPLv2+\par
audit-libs   2.8.1   LGPLv2+\par
basesystem 10   Public Domain\par
bash   4.2.46  GPLv3+\par
bind-license  9.9.4   ISC\par
binutils  2.27     GPLv3+\par
bzip2-libs  1.0.6   BSD\par
ca-certificates  2018.2  Public Domain\par
centos-release  7    GPLv2\par
chkconfig  1.7.4   GPLv2\par
coreutils  8.22  GPLv3+\par
cpio  2.11 GPLv3+\par
cracklib  2.9.0   LGPLv2+\par
cracklib-dicts  2.9.0   LGPLv2+\par
cryptsetup-libs  1.7.4   GPLv2+ and LGPLv2+\par
curl  7.29.0  MIT\par
cyrus-sasl-lib  2.1.26  BSD with advertising\par
dbus  1.10.24 (GPLv2+ or AFL) and GPLv2+\par
dbus-glib  0.1      AFL and GPLv2+\par
dbus-libs  1.10.24 (GPLv2+ or AFL) and GPLv2+\par
dbus-python 1.1.1   MIT\par
device-mapper   1.02.14 GPLv2\par
device-mapper-libs  1.02.14 LGPLv2\par
diffutils   3.3      GPLv3+\par
dos2unix 6.0.3 BSD\par
dracut  33    GPLv2+ and LGPLv2+\par
elfutils-default-yama-s0.17  GPLv2+ or LGPLv3+\par
elfutils-libelf  0.17  GPLv2+ or LGPLv3+\par
elfutils-libs  0.17  GPLv2+ or LGPLv3+\par
expat  2.1.0   MIT\par
file-libs   5.11     BSD\par
filesystem  3.2      Public Domain\par
findutils  4.5.11  GPLv3+\par
gawk   4.0.2   GPLv3+ and GPL and LGPLv3+ and LGPL and BSD\par
gdbm  1.1      GPLv3+\par
glib2  2.54.2  LGPLv2+\par
glibc   2.17     LGPLv2+ and LGPLv2+ with exceptions and GPLv2+\par
glibc-common  2.17     LGPLv2+ and LGPLv2+ with exceptions and GPLv2+\par
gmp  6.0.0   LGPLv3+ or GPLv2+\par
gnupg2  2.0.22  GPLv3+\par
gobject-introspection   1.50.0  GPLv2+, LGPLv2+, MIT\par
gpg-pubkey   f4a80eb pubkey\par
gpgme  1.3.2   LGPLv2+\par
grep   2.2      GPLv3+\par
gzip   1.5      GPLv3+ and GFDL\par
hardlink   1   GPL+\par
hostname    3.13     GPLv2+\par
info   5.1      GPLv3+\par
iputils  20160308 BSD and GPLv2+\par
keyutils-libs 1.5.8 GPLv2+ and LGPLv2+\par
kmod  20  GPLv2+\par
kmod-libs  20       LGPLv2+\par
kpartx   0.4.9   GPL+\par
krb5-libs   1.15.1  MIT\par
libacl   2.2.51  LGPLv2+\par
libaio  0.3.109 LGPLv2+\par
libassuan   2.1.0   LGPLv2+ and GPLv3+\par
libattr   2.4.46  LGPLv2+\par
libblkid    2.23.2  LGPLv2+\par
libcap    2.22     LGPLv2+\par
libcap-ng     0.7.5   LGPLv2+\par
libcom_err    1.42.9  MIT\par
libcurl   7.29.0  MIT\par
libdb    5.3.21  BSD and LGPLv2 and Sleepycat\par
libdb-utils  5.3.21  BSD and LGPLv2 and Sleepycat\par
libffi   3.0.13  MIT and Public Domain\par
libgcc  4.8.5   GPLv3+ and GPLv3+ with exceptions and GPLv2+ with exceptions and LGPLv2+ and BSD\par
libgcrypt 1.5.3   LGPLv2+\par
libgpg-error  1.12     LGPLv2+\par
libidn   1.28     LGPLv2+ and GPLv3+ and GFDL\par
libmount  2.23.2  LGPLv2+\par
libpwquality 1.2.3   BSD or GPLv2+\par
libselinux   2.5      Public Domain\par
libsemanage   2.5      LGPLv2+\par
libsepol   2.5      LGPLv2+\par
libssh2  1.4.3   BSD\par
libstdc++  4.8.5   GPLv3+ and GPLv3+ with exceptions and GPLv2+ with exceptions and LGPLv2+ and BSD\par
libtasn1  4.1      GPLv3+ and LGPLv2+\par
libuser    0.6      LGPLv2+\par
libutempter    1.1.6   LGPLv2+\par
libuuid    2.23.2  BSD\par
libverto    0.2.5   MIT\par
libxml2     2.9.1   MIT\par
libxml2-python 2.9.1   MIT\par
lua    5.1.4   MIT\par
lz4  1.7.5   GPLv2+ and BSD\par
ncurses    5.9      MIT\par
ncurses-base    5.9      MIT\par
ncurses-libs     5.9      MIT\par
nspr     4.19.0  MPLv2.0\par
nss    3.36.0  MPLv2.0\par
nss-pem   1.0.3   MPLv1.1\par
nss-softokn    3.36.0  MPLv2.0\par
nss-softokn-freebl    3.36.0  MPLv2.0\par
nss-sysinit    3.36.0  MPLv2.0\par
nss-tools     3.36.0  MPLv2.0\par
nss-util     3.36.0  MPLv2.0\par
numactl    2.0.9   GPLv2\par
numactl-libs    2.0.9   LGPLv2 and GPLv2\par
openldap       2.4.44  OpenLDAP\par
openssl-libs      1.0.2k  OpenSSL\par
p11-kit    0.23.5  BSD\par
p11-kit-trust     0.23.5  BSD\par
pam    1.1.8   BSD and GPLv2+\par
passwd    0.79     BSD or GPL+\par
pcre      8.32     BSD\par
pinentry     0.8.1   GPLv2+\par
pkgconfig   0.27.1  GPLv2+\par
popt   1.13     MIT\par
procps-ng   3.3.10  GPL+ and GPLv2 and GPLv2+ and GPLv3+ and LGPLv2+\par
psmisc 22.2     GPLv2+\par
pth   2.0.7   LGPLv2+\par
pygpgme    0.3      LGPLv2+\par
pyliblzma    0.5.3   LGPLv3+\par
python    2.7.5   Python\par
python-chardet      2.2.1   LGPLv2\par
python-gobject-base     3.22.0  LGPLv2+ and MIT\par
python-iniparse      0.4      MIT\par
python-kitchen       1.1.1   LGPLv2+\par
python-libs     2.7.5   Python\par
python-pycurl     7.19.0  LGPLv2+ or MIT\par
python-urlgrabber    3.1      LGPLv2+\par
pyxattr    0.5.1   LGPLv2+\par
qrencode-libs    3.4.1   LGPLv2+\par
readline       6.2      GPLv3+\par
rootfiles    8.1      Public Domain\par
rpm     4.11.3  GPLv2+\par
rpm-build-libs    4.11.3  GPLv2+ and LGPLv2+ with exceptions\par
rpm-libs   4.11.3  GPLv2+ and LGPLv2+ with exceptions\par
rpm-python    4.11.3  GPLv2+\par
sed     4.2.2   GPLv3+\par
setup    2.8.71  Public Domain\par
shadow-utils    4.1.5.1 BSD and GPLv2+\par
shared-mime-info    1.8      GPLv2+\par
sqlite    3.7.17  Public Domain\par
sudo   1.8.19p ISC\par
systemd      219      LGPLv2+ and MIT and GPLv2+\par
systemd-libs    219      LGPLv2+ and MIT\par
tar     1.26     GPLv3+\par
tzdata     2018e   Public Domain\par
ustr       1.0.4   MIT or LGPLv2+ or BSD\par
util-linux    2.23.2  GPLv2 and GPLv2+ and LGPLv2+ and BSD with advertising and Public Domain\par
vim-minimal    7.4.160 Vim\par
wget     1.14     GPLv3+\par
xz    5.2.2   LGPLv2+\par
xz-libs   5.2.2   LGPLv2+\par
yum    3.4.3   GPLv2+\par
yum-metadata-parser  1.1.4   GPLv2\par
yum-plugin-fastestmirro 1.1.31  GPLv2+\par
yum-plugin-ovl    1.1.31  GPLv2+\par
yum-utils  1.1.31  GPLv2+\par
zlib   1.2.7   zlib and Boost\par
\par
Export and Import Restrictions\par
\par
This Program may contain cryptography. Transfer to, or use by, users of the Program may be prohibited or subject to export or import laws, regulations or policies, including those of the United States Export Administration Regulations. Licensee assumes all responsibility for complying with all applicable laws, regulations, and policies regarding the export, import, or use of this Program, including but not limited to, U.S. restrictions on exports or reexports. To obtain the export classification of this Program refer to: https://www.ibm.com/products/exporting/.\par
\par
L/N:  L-JFEL-B8HHQR\par
D/N:  L-JFEL-B8HHQR\par
P/N:  L-JFEL-B8HHQR\par
\par
\par
International License Agreement for Non-Warranted Programs\par
\par
Part 1 - General Terms\par
\par
BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING, ACCESSING, CLICKING ON AN "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR OTHERWISE USING THE PROGRAM, LICENSEE AGREES TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU ARE ACCEPTING THESE TERMS ON BEHALF OF LICENSEE, YOU REPRESENT AND WARRANT THAT YOU HAVE FULL AUTHORITY TO BIND LICENSEE TO THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS,\par
\par
* DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, ACCESS, CLICK ON AN "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR USE THE PROGRAM; AND\par
\par
* PROMPTLY RETURN THE UNUSED MEDIA AND DOCUMENTATION TO THE PARTY FROM WHOM IT WAS OBTAINED FOR A REFUND OF THE AMOUNT PAID. IF THE PROGRAM WAS DOWNLOADED, DESTROY ALL COPIES OF THE PROGRAM.\par
\par
1. Definitions\par
\par
"Authorized Use" - the specified level at which Licensee is authorized to execute or run the Program. That level may be measured by number of users, millions of service units ("MSUs"), Processor Value Units ("PVUs"), or other level of use specified by IBM.\par
\par
"IBM" - International Business Machines Corporation or one of its subsidiaries.\par
\par
"License Information" ("LI") - a document that provides information and any additional terms specific to a Program. The Program's LI is available at www.ibm.com/software/sla. The LI can also be found in the Program's directory, by the use of a system command, or as a booklet included with the Program.\par
\par
"Program" - the following, including the original and all whole or partial copies: 1) machine-readable instructions and data, 2) components, files, and modules, 3) audio-visual content (such as images, text, recordings, or pictures), and 4) related licensed materials (such as keys and documentation).\par
\par
2. Agreement Structure\par
\par
This Agreement includes Part 1 - General Terms, Part 2 - Country-unique Terms (if any) and the LI and is the complete agreement between Licensee and IBM regarding the use of the Program. It replaces any prior oral or written communications between Licensee and IBM concerning Licensee's use of the Program. The terms of Part 2 may replace or modify those of Part 1. To the extent of any conflict, the LI prevails over both Parts.\par
\par
3. License Grant\par
\par
The Program is owned by IBM or an IBM supplier, and is copyrighted and licensed, not sold.\par
\par
IBM grants Licensee a nonexclusive license to 1) use the Program up to the Authorized Use specified in the invoice, 2) make and install copies to support such Authorized Use, and 3) make a backup copy, all provided that\par
\par
a. Licensee has lawfully obtained the Program and complies with the terms of this Agreement;\par
\par
b. the backup copy does not execute unless the backed-up Program cannot execute;\par
\par
c. Licensee reproduces all copyright notices and other legends of ownership on each copy, or partial copy, of the Program;\par
\par
d. Licensee ensures that anyone who uses the Program (accessed either locally or remotely) 1) does so only on Licensee's behalf and 2) complies with the terms of this Agreement;\par
\par
e. Licensee does not 1) use, copy, modify, or distribute the Program except as expressly permitted in this Agreement; 2) reverse assemble, reverse compile, otherwise translate, or reverse engineer the Program, except as expressly permitted by law without the possibility of contractual waiver; 3) use any of the Program's components, files, modules, audio-visual content, or related licensed materials separately from that Program; or 4) sublicense, rent, or lease the Program; and\par
\par
f. if Licensee obtains this Program as a Supporting Program, Licensee uses this Program only to support the Principal Program and subject to any limitations in the license to the Principal Program, or, if Licensee obtains this Program as a Principal Program, Licensee uses all Supporting Programs only to support this Program, and subject to any limitations in this Agreement. For purposes of this Item "f," a "Supporting Program" is a Program that is part of another IBM Program ("Principal Program") and identified as a Supporting Program in the Principal Program's LI. (To obtain a separate license to a Supporting Program without these restrictions, Licensee should contact the party from whom Licensee obtained the Supporting Program.)\par
\par
This license applies to each copy of the Program that Licensee makes.\par
\par
3.1 Trade-ups, Updates, Fixes, and Patches\par
\par
3.1.1 Trade-ups\par
\par
If the Program is replaced by a trade-up Program, the replaced Program's license is promptly terminated.\par
\par
3.1.2 Updates, Fixes, and Patches\par
\par
When Licensee receives an update, fix, or patch to a Program, Licensee accepts any additional or different terms that are applicable to such update, fix, or patch that are specified in its LI. If no additional or different terms are provided, then the update, fix, or patch is subject solely to this Agreement. If the Program is replaced by an update, Licensee agrees to promptly discontinue use of the replaced Program.\par
\par
3.2 Fixed Term Licenses\par
\par
If IBM licenses the Program for a fixed term, Licensee's license is terminated at the end of the fixed term, unless Licensee and IBM agree to renew it.\par
\par
3.3 Term and Termination\par
\par
This Agreement is effective until terminated.\par
\par
IBM may terminate Licensee's license if Licensee fails to comply with the terms of this Agreement.\par
\par
If the license is terminated for any reason by either party, Licensee agrees to promptly discontinue use of and destroy all of Licensee's copies of the Program. Any terms of this Agreement that by their nature extend beyond termination of this Agreement remain in effect until fulfilled, and apply to both parties' respective successors and assignees.\par
\par
4. Charges\par
\par
Charges, if any, are based on Authorized Use obtained, which is specified in the invoice. IBM does not give credits or refunds for charges already due or paid, except as specified elsewhere in this Agreement.\par
\par
If Licensee wishes to increase its Authorized Use, Licensee must notify IBM or an authorized IBM reseller in advance and pay any applicable charges.\par
\par
5. Taxes\par
\par
If any authority imposes on the Program a duty, tax, levy, or fee, excluding those based on IBM's net income, then Licensee agrees to pay that amount, as specified in an invoice, or supply exemption documentation. Licensee is responsible for any personal property taxes for the Program from the date that Licensee obtains it. If any authority imposes a customs duty, tax, levy, or fee for the import into or the export, transfer, access, or use of the Program outside the country in which the original Licensee was granted the license, then Licensee agrees that it is responsible for, and will pay, any amount imposed.\par
\par
6. Money-back Guarantee\par
\par
If Licensee is dissatisfied with the Program for any reason and is the original Licensee, Licensee may terminate the license and obtain a refund of the amount Licensee paid, if any, for the Program, provided that Licensee returns the Program to the party from whom Licensee obtained it within 30 days of the invoice date. If the license is for a fixed term that is subject to renewal, then Licensee may obtain a refund only if the Program is returned within the first 30 days of the initial term. If Licensee downloaded the Program, Licensee should contact the party from whom Licensee obtained it for instructions on how to obtain the refund.\par
\par
7. Program Transfer\par
\par
Licensee may transfer the Program and all of Licensee's license rights and obligations to another party only if that party agrees to the terms of this Agreement. If the license is terminated for any reason by either party, Licensee is prohibited from transferring the Program to another party. Licensee may not transfer a portion of 1) the Program or 2) the Program's Authorized Use. When Licensee transfers the Program, Licensee must also transfer a hard copy of this Agreement, including the LI. Immediately after the transfer, Licensee's license terminates.\par
\par
8. No Warranties\par
\par
SUBJECT TO ANY STATUTORY WARRANTIES THAT CANNOT BE EXCLUDED, IBM MAKES NO WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THE PROGRAM OR SUPPORT, IF ANY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND TITLE, AND ANY WARRANTY OR CONDITION OF NON-INFRINGEMENT.\par
\par
SOME STATES OR JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, SO THE ABOVE EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO LICENSEE. IN THAT EVENT, SUCH WARRANTIES ARE LIMITED IN DURATION TO THE MINIMUM PERIOD REQUIRED BY LAW. NO WARRANTIES APPLY AFTER THAT PERIOD. SOME STATES OR JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO LICENSEE. LICENSEE MAY HAVE OTHER RIGHTS THAT VARY FROM STATE TO STATE OR JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION.\par
\par
THE DISCLAIMERS AND EXCLUSIONS IN THIS SECTION 8 ALSO APPLY TO ANY OF IBM'S PROGRAM DEVELOPERS AND SUPPLIERS.\par
\par
MANUFACTURERS, SUPPLIERS, OR PUBLISHERS OF NON-IBM PROGRAMS MAY PROVIDE THEIR OWN WARRANTIES.\par
\par
IBM DOES NOT PROVIDE SUPPORT OF ANY KIND, UNLESS IBM SPECIFIES OTHERWISE. IN SUCH EVENT, ANY SUPPORT PROVIDED BY IBM IS SUBJECT TO THE DISCLAIMERS AND EXCLUSIONS IN THIS SECTION 8.\par
\par
9. Licensee Data and Databases\par
\par
To assist Licensee in isolating the cause of a problem with the Program, IBM may request that Licensee 1) allow IBM to remotely access Licensee's system or 2) send Licensee information or system data to IBM. However, IBM is not obligated to provide such assistance unless IBM and Licensee enter a separate written agreement under which IBM agrees to provide to Licensee that type of support, which is beyond IBM's obligations in this Agreement. In any event, IBM uses information about errors and problems to improve its products and services, and assist with its provision of related support offerings. For these purposes, IBM may use IBM entities and subcontractors (including in one or more countries other than the one in which Licensee is located), and Licensee authorizes IBM to do so.\par
\par
Licensee remains responsible for 1) any data and the content of any database Licensee makes available to IBM, 2) the selection and implementation of procedures and controls regarding access, security, encryption, use, and transmission of data (including any personally-identifiable data), and 3) backup and recovery of any database and any stored data. Licensee will not send or provide IBM access to any personally-identifiable information, whether in data or any other form, and will be responsible for reasonable costs and other amounts that IBM may incur relating to any such information mistakenly provided to IBM or the loss or disclosure of such information by IBM, including those arising out of any third party claims.\par
\par
10. Limitation of Liability\par
\par
The limitations and exclusions in this Section 10 (Limitation of Liability) apply to the full extent they are not prohibited by applicable law without the possibility of contractual waiver.\par
\par
10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable\par
\par
Circumstances may arise where, because of a default on IBM's part or other liability, Licensee is entitled to recover damages from IBM. Regardless of the basis on which Licensee is entitled to claim damages from IBM (including fundamental breach, negligence, misrepresentation, or other contract or tort claim), IBM's entire liability for all claims in the aggregate arising from or related to each Program or otherwise arising under this Agreement will not exceed the amount of any 1) damages for bodily injury (including death) and damage to real property and tangible personal property and 2) other actual direct damages up to the charges (if the Program is subject to fixed term charges, up to twelve months' charges) Licensee paid for the Program that is the subject of the claim.\par
\par
This limit also applies to any of IBM's Program developers and suppliers. It is the maximum for which IBM and its Program developers and suppliers are collectively responsible.\par
\par
10.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable\par
\par
UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES IS IBM, ITS PROGRAM DEVELOPERS OR SUPPLIERS LIABLE FOR ANY OF THE FOLLOWING, EVEN IF INFORMED OF THEIR POSSIBILITY:\par
\par
a. LOSS OF, OR DAMAGE TO, DATA;\par
\par
b. SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY, OR INDIRECT DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY ECONOMIC CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES; OR\par
\par
c. LOST PROFITS, BUSINESS, REVENUE, GOODWILL, OR ANTICIPATED SAVINGS.\par
\par
11. Compliance Verification\par
\par
For purposes of this Section 11 (Compliance Verification), "ILAN Program Terms" means 1) this Agreement and applicable amendments and transaction documents provided by IBM, and 2) IBM software policies that may be found at the IBM Software Policy website (www.ibm.com/softwarepolicies), including but not limited to those policies concerning backup, sub-capacity pricing, and migration.\par
\par
The rights and obligations set forth in this Section 11 remain in effect during the period the Program is licensed to Licensee, and for two years thereafter.\par
\par
11.1 Verification Process\par
\par
Licensee agrees to create, retain, and provide to IBM and its auditors accurate written records, system tool outputs, and other system information sufficient to provide auditable verification that Licensee's use of all Programs is in compliance with the ILAN Program Terms, including, without limitation, all of IBM's applicable licensing and pricing qualification terms. Licensee is responsible for 1) ensuring that it does not exceed its Authorized Use, and 2) remaining in compliance with ILAN Program Terms.\par
\par
Upon reasonable notice, IBM may verify Licensee's compliance with ILAN Program Terms at all sites and for all environments in which Licensee uses (for any purpose) Programs subject to ILAN Program Terms. Such verification will be conducted in a manner that minimizes disruption to Licensee's business, and may be conducted on Licensee's premises, during normal business hours. IBM may use an independent auditor to assist with such verification, provided IBM has a written confidentiality agreement in place with such auditor.\par
\par
11.2 Resolution\par
\par
IBM will notify Licensee in writing if any such verification indicates that Licensee has used any Program in excess of its Authorized Use or is otherwise not in compliance with the ILAN Program Terms. Licensee agrees to promptly pay directly to IBM the charges that IBM specifies in an invoice for 1) any such excess use, 2) support for such excess use for the lesser of the duration of such excess use or two years, and 3) any additional charges and other liabilities determined as a result of such verification.\par
\par
12. Third Party Notices\par
\par
The Program may include third party code that IBM, not the third party, licenses to Licensee under this Agreement. Notices, if any, for the third party code ("Third Party Notices") are included for Licensee's information only. These notices can be found in the Program's NOTICES file(s). Information on how to obtain source code for certain third party code can be found in the Third Party Notices. If in the Third Party Notices IBM identifies third party code as "Modifiable Third Party Code," IBM authorizes Licensee to 1) modify the Modifiable Third Party Code and 2) reverse engineer the Program modules that directly interface with the Modifiable Third Party Code provided that it is only for the purpose of debugging Licensee's modifications to such third party code. IBM's service and support obligations, if any, apply only to the unmodified Program.\par
\par
13. General\par
\par
a. Nothing in this Agreement affects any statutory rights of consumers that cannot be waived or limited by contract.\par
\par
b. For Programs IBM provides to Licensee in tangible form, IBM fulfills its shipping and delivery obligations upon the delivery of such Programs to the IBM-designated carrier, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by Licensee and IBM.\par
\par
c. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement remain in full force and effect.\par
\par
d. Licensee agrees to comply with all applicable export and import laws and regulations, including U.S. embargo and sanctions regulations and prohibitions on export for certain end uses or to certain users.\par
\par
e. Licensee authorizes International Business Machines Corporation and its subsidiaries (and their successors and assigns, contractors and IBM Business Partners) to store and use Licensee's business contact information wherever they do business, in connection with IBM products and services, or in furtherance of IBM's business relationship with Licensee.\par
\par
f. Each party will allow the other reasonable opportunity to comply before it claims that the other has not met its obligations under this Agreement. The parties will attempt in good faith to resolve all disputes, disagreements, or claims between the parties relating to this Agreement.\par
\par
g. Unless otherwise required by applicable law without the possibility of contractual waiver or limitation: 1) neither party will bring a legal action, regardless of form, for any claim arising out of or related to this Agreement more than two years after the cause of action arose; and 2) upon the expiration of such time limit, any such claim and all respective rights related to the claim lapse.\par
\par
h. Neither Licensee nor IBM is responsible for failure to fulfill any obligations due to causes beyond its control.\par
\par
i. No right or cause of action for any third party is created by this Agreement, nor is IBM responsible for any third party claims against Licensee, except as permitted in Subsection 10.1 (Items for Which IBM May Be Liable) above for bodily injury (including death) or damage to real or tangible personal property for which IBM is legally liable to that third party.\par
\par
j. In entering into this Agreement, neither party is relying on any representation not specified in this Agreement, including but not limited to any representation concerning: 1) the performance or function of the Program; 2) the experiences or recommendations of other parties; or 3) any results or savings that Licensee may achieve.\par
\par
k. IBM has signed agreements with certain organizations (called "IBM Business Partners") to promote, market, and support certain Programs. IBM Business Partners remain independent and separate from IBM. IBM is not responsible for the actions or statements of IBM Business Partners or obligations they have to Licensee.\par
\par
l. The license and intellectual property indemnification terms of Licensee's other agreements with IBM (such as the IBM Customer Agreement) do not apply to Program licenses granted under this Agreement.\par
\par
m. Both parties agree that all information exchanged is nonconfidential. If either party requires the exchange of confidential information, it will be made under a signed confidentiality agreement.\par
\par
14. Geographic Scope and Governing Law\par
\par
14.1 Governing Law\par
\par
Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license to govern, interpret, and enforce all of Licensee's and IBM's respective rights, duties, and obligations arising from, or relating in any manner to, the subject matter of this Agreement, without regard to conflict of law principles.\par
\par
The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods does not apply.\par
\par
14.2 Jurisdiction\par
\par
All rights, duties, and obligations are subject to the courts of the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license.\par
\par
Part 2 - Country-unique Terms\par
\par
For licenses granted in the countries specified below, the following terms replace or modify the referenced terms in Part 1. All terms in Part 1 that are not changed by these amendments remain unchanged and in effect. This Part 2 is organized as follows:\par
\par
* Multiple country amendments to Part 1, Section 14 (Governing Law and Jurisdiction);\par
\par
* Americas country amendments to other Agreement terms;\par
\par
* Asia Pacific country amendments to other Agreement terms; and\par
\par
* Europe, Middle East, and Africa country amendments to other Agreement terms.\par
\par
Multiple country amendments to Part 1, Section 14 (Governing Law and Jurisdiction)\par
\par
14.1 Governing Law\par
\par
The phrase "the laws of the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license" in the first paragraph of 14.1 Governing Law is replaced by the following phrases in the countries below:\par
\par
AMERICAS\par
\par
(1) In Canada: the laws in the Province of Ontario;\par
\par
(2) in Mexico: the federal laws of the Republic of Mexico;\par
\par
(3) in the United States, Anguilla, Antigua/Barbuda, Aruba, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Maarten, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines: the laws of the State of New York, United States;\par
\par
(4) in Venezuela: the laws of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela;\par
\par
ASIA PACIFIC\par
\par
(5) in Cambodia and Laos: the laws of the State of New York, United States;\par
\par
(6) in Australia: the laws of the State or Territory in which the transaction is performed;\par
\par
(7) in Hong Kong SAR and Macau SAR: the laws of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region ("SAR");\par
\par
(8) in Taiwan: the laws of Taiwan;\par
\par
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA\par
\par
(9) in Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan: the laws of Austria;\par
\par
(10) in Algeria, Andorra, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo Republic, Djibouti, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mayotte, Morocco, New Caledonia, Niger, Reunion, Senegal, Seychelles, Togo, Tunisia, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna: the laws of France;\par
\par
(11) in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania: the laws of Finland;\par
\par
(12) in Angola, Bahrain, Botswana, Burundi, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Malawi, Malta, Mozambique, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Tanzania, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, West Bank/Gaza, Yemen, Zambia, and Zimbabwe: the laws of England; and\par
\par
(13) in South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, and Swaziland: the laws of the Republic of South Africa.\par
\par
14.2 Jurisdiction\par
\par
The following paragraph pertains to jurisdiction and replaces Subsection 14.2 (Jurisdiction) as it applies for those countries identified below:\par
\par
All rights, duties, and obligations are subject to the courts of the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license except that in the countries identified below all disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement, including summary proceedings, will be brought before and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the following courts of competent jurisdiction:\par
\par
AMERICAS\par
\par
(1) In Argentina: the Ordinary Commercial Court of the city of Buenos Aires;\par
\par
(2) in Brazil: the court of Rio de Janeiro, RJ;\par
\par
(3) in Chile: the Civil Courts of Justice of Santiago;\par
\par
(4) in Ecuador: the civil judges of Quito for executory or summary proceedings (as applicable);\par
\par
(5) in Mexico: the courts located in Mexico City, Federal District;\par
\par
(6) in Peru: the judges and tribunals of the judicial district of Lima, Cercado;\par
\par
(7) in Uruguay: the courts of the city of Montevideo;\par
\par
(8) in Venezuela: the courts of the metropolitan area of the city of Caracas;\par
\par
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA\par
\par
(9) in Austria: the court of law in Vienna, Austria (Inner-City);\par
\par
(10) in Algeria, Andorra, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo Republic, Djibouti, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, France, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mayotte, Monaco, Morocco, New Caledonia, Niger, Reunion, Senegal, Seychelles, Togo, Tunisia, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna: the Commercial Court of Paris;\par
\par
(11) in Angola, Bahrain, Botswana, Burundi, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Malawi, Malta, Mozambique, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Tanzania, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, West Bank/Gaza, Yemen, Zambia, and Zimbabwe: the English courts;\par
\par
(12) in South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, and Swaziland: the High Court in Johannesburg;\par
\par
(13) in Greece: the competent court of Athens;\par
\par
(14) in Israel: the courts of Tel Aviv-Jaffa;\par
\par
(15) in Italy: the courts of Milan;\par
\par
(16) in Portugal: the courts of Lisbon;\par
\par
(17) in Spain: the courts of Madrid; and\par
\par
(18) in Turkey: the Istanbul Central Courts and Execution Directorates of Istanbul, the Republic of Turkey.\par
\par
14.3 Arbitration\par
\par
The following paragraph is added as a new Subsection 14.3 (Arbitration) as it applies for those countries identified below. The provisions of this Subsection 14.3 prevail over those of Subsection 14.2 (Jurisdiction) to the extent permitted by the applicable governing law and rules of procedure:\par
\par
ASIA PACIFIC\par
\par
(1) In Cambodia, India, Laos, Philippines, and Vietnam:\par
\par
Disputes arising out of or in connection with this Agreement will be finally settled by arbitration which will be held in Singapore in accordance with the Arbitration Rules of Singapore International Arbitration Center ("SIAC Rules") then in effect. The arbitration award will be final and binding for the parties without appeal and will be in writing and set forth the findings of fact and the conclusions of law.\par
\par
The number of arbitrators will be three, with each side to the dispute being entitled to appoint one arbitrator. The two arbitrators appointed by the parties will appoint a third arbitrator who will act as chairman of the proceedings. Vacancies in the post of chairman will be filled by the president of the SIAC. Other vacancies will be filled by the respective nominating party. Proceedings will continue from the stage they were at when the vacancy occurred.\par
\par
If one of the parties refuses or otherwise fails to appoint an arbitrator within 30 days of the date the other party appoints its, the first appointed arbitrator will be the sole arbitrator, provided that the arbitrator was validly and properly appointed.\par
\par
All proceedings will be conducted, including all documents presented in such proceedings, in the English language. The English language version of this Agreement prevails over any other language version.\par
\par
(2) In the People's Republic of China:\par
\par
In case no settlement can be reached, the disputes will be submitted to China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission for arbitration according to the then effective rules of the said Arbitration Commission. The arbitration will take place in Beijing and be conducted in Chinese. The arbitration award will be final and binding on both parties. During the course of arbitration, this agreement will continue to be performed except for the part which the parties are disputing and which is undergoing arbitration.\par
\par
(3) In Indonesia:\par
\par
Each party will allow the other reasonable opportunity to comply before it claims that the other has not met its obligations under this Agreement. The parties will attempt in good faith to resolve all disputes, disagreements, or claims between the parties relating to this Agreement. Unless otherwise required by applicable law without the possibility of contractual waiver or limitation, i) neither party will bring a legal action, regardless of form, arising out of or related to this Agreement or any transaction under it more than two years after the cause of action arose; and ii) after such time limit, any legal action arising out of this Agreement or any transaction under it and all respective rights related to any such action lapse.\par
\par
Disputes arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be finally settled by arbitration that shall be held in Jakarta, Indonesia in accordance with the rules of Board of the Indonesian National Board of Arbitration (Badan Arbitrase Nasional Indonesia or "BANI") then in effect. The arbitration award shall be final and binding for the parties without appeal and shall be in writing and set forth the findings of fact and the conclusions of law.\par
\par
The number of arbitrators shall be three, with each side to the dispute being entitled to appoint one arbitrator. The two arbitrators appointed by the parties shall appoint a third arbitrator who shall act as chairman of the proceedings. Vacancies in the post of chairman shall be filled by the chairman of the BANI. Other vacancies shall be filled by the respective nominating party. Proceedings shall continue from the stage they were at when the vacancy occurred.\par
\par
If one of the parties refuses or otherwise fails to appoint an arbitrator within 30 days of the date the other party appoints its, the first appointed arbitrator shall be the sole arbitrator, provided that the arbitrator was validly and properly appointed.\par
\par
All proceedings shall be conducted, including all documents presented in such proceedings, in the English and/or Indonesian language.\par
\par
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA\par
\par
(4) In Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan:\par
\par
All disputes arising out of this Agreement or related to its violation, termination or nullity will be finally settled under the Rules of Arbitration and Conciliation of the International Arbitral Center of the Federal Economic Chamber in Vienna (Vienna Rules) by three arbitrators appointed in accordance with these rules. The arbitration will be held in Vienna, Austria, and the official language of the proceedings will be English. The decision of the arbitrators will be final and binding upon both parties. Therefore, pursuant to paragraph 598 (2) of the Austrian Code of Civil Procedure, the parties expressly waive the application of paragraph 595 (1) figure 7 of the Code. IBM may, however, institute proceedings in a competent court in the country of installation.\par
\par
(5) In Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania:\par
\par
All disputes arising in connection with this Agreement will be finally settled in arbitration that will be held in Helsinki, Finland in accordance with the arbitration laws of Finland then in effect. Each party will appoint one arbitrator. The arbitrators will then jointly appoint the chairman. If arbitrators cannot agree on the chairman, then the Central Chamber of Commerce in Helsinki will appoint the chairman.\par
\par
AMERICAS COUNTRY AMENDMENTS\par
\par
CANADA\par
\par
10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable\par
\par
The following replaces Item 1 in the first paragraph of this Subsection 10.1 (Items for Which IBM May Be Liable):\par
\par
1) damages for bodily injury (including death) and physical harm to real property and tangible personal property caused by IBM's negligence; and\par
\par
13. General\par
\par
The following replaces Item 13.d:\par
\par
d. Licensee agrees to comply with all applicable export and import laws and regulations, including those of that apply to goods of United States origin and that prohibit or limit export for certain uses or to certain users.\par
\par
The following replaces Item 13.i:\par
\par
i. No right or cause of action for any third party is created by this Agreement or any transaction under it, nor is IBM responsible for any third party claims against Licensee except as permitted by the Limitation of Liability section above for bodily injury (including death) or physical harm to real or tangible personal property caused by IBM's negligence for which IBM is legally liable to that third party.\par
\par
The following is added as Item 13.n:\par
\par
n. For purposes of this Item 13.n, "Personal Data" refers to information relating to an identified or identifiable individual made available by one of the parties, its personnel or any other individual to the other in connection with this Agreement. The following provisions apply in the event that one party makes Personal Data available to the other:\par
\par
(1) General\par
\par
(a) Each party is responsible for complying with any obligations applying to it under applicable Canadian data privacy laws and regulations ("Laws").\par
\par
(b) Neither party will request Personal Data beyond what is necessary to fulfill the purpose(s) for which it is requested. The purpose(s) for requesting Personal Data must be reasonable. Each party will agree in advance as to the type of Personal Data that is required to be made available.\par
\par
(2) Security Safeguards\par
\par
(a) Each party acknowledges that it is solely responsible for determining and communicating to the other the appropriate technological, physical and organizational security measures required to protect Personal Data.\par
\par
(b) Each party will ensure that Personal Data is protected in accordance with the security safeguards communicated and agreed to by the other.\par
\par
(c) Each party will ensure that any third party to whom Personal Data is transferred is bound by the applicable terms of this section.\par
\par
(d) Additional or different services required to comply with the Laws will be deemed a request for new services.\par
\par
(3) Use\par
\par
Each party agrees that Personal Data will only be used, accessed, managed, transferred, disclosed to third parties or otherwise processed to fulfill the purpose(s) for which it was made available.\par
\par
(4) Access Requests\par
\par
(a) Each party agrees to reasonably cooperate with the other in connection with requests to access or amend Personal Data.\par
\par
(b) Each party agrees to reimburse the other for any reasonable charges incurred in providing each other assistance.\par
\par
(c) Each party agrees to amend Personal Data only upon receiving instructions to do so from the other party or its personnel.\par
\par
(5) Retention\par
\par
Each party will promptly return to the other or destroy all Personal Data that is no longer necessary to fulfill the purpose(s) for which it was made available, unless otherwise instructed by the other or its personnel or required by law.\par
\par
(6) Public Bodies Who Are Subject to Public Sector Privacy Legislation\par
\par
For Licensees who are public bodies subject to public sector privacy legislation, this Item 13.n applies only to Personal Data made available to Licensee in connection with this Agreement, and the obligations in this section apply only to Licensee, except that: 1) section (2)(a) applies only to IBM; 2) sections (1)(a) and (4)(a) apply to both parties; and 3) section (4)(b) and the last sentence in (1)(b) do not apply.\par
\par
PERU\par
\par
10. Limitation of Liability\par
\par
The following is added to the end of this Section 10 (Limitation of Liability):\par
\par
Except as expressly required by law without the possibility of contractual waiver, Licensee and IBM intend that the limitation of liability in this Limitation of Liability section applies to damages caused by all types of claims and causes of action. If any limitation on or exclusion from liability in this section is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable with respect to a particular claim or cause of action, the parties intend that it nonetheless apply to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law to all other claims and causes of action.\par
\par
10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable\par
\par
The following is added to the end of this Subsection 10.1:\par
\par
In accordance with Article 1328 of the Peruvian Civil Code, the limitations and exclusions specified in this section will not apply to damages caused by IBM's willful misconduct ("dolo") or gross negligence ("culpa inexcusable").\par
\par
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA\par
\par
5. Taxes\par
\par
The following is added to the end of this Section 5 (Taxes):\par
\par
For Programs delivered electronically in the United States for which Licensee claims a state sales and use tax exemption, Licensee agrees not to receive any tangible personal property (e.g., media and publications) associated with the electronic program.\par
\par
Licensee agrees to be responsible for any sales and use tax liabilities that may arise as a result of Licensee's subsequent redistribution of Programs after delivery by IBM.\par
\par
13. General\par
\par
The following is added to Section 13 as Item 13.n:\par
\par
n. U.S. Government Users Restricted Rights - Use, duplication or disclosure is restricted by the GSA IT Schedule 70 Contract with the IBM Corporation.\par
\par
The following is added to Item 13.f:\par
\par
Each party waives any right to a jury trial in any proceeding arising out of or related to this Agreement.\par
\par
ASIA PACIFIC COUNTRY AMENDMENTS\par
\par
AUSTRALIA\par
\par
5. Taxes\par
\par
The following sentences replace the first two sentences of Section 5 (Taxes):\par
\par
If any government or authority imposes a duty, tax (other than income tax), levy, or fee, on this Agreement or on the Program itself, that is not otherwise provided for in the amount payable, Licensee agrees to pay it when IBM invoices Licensee. If the rate of GST changes, IBM may adjust the charge or other amount payable to take into account that change from the date the change becomes effective.\par
\par
8. No Warranties\par
\par
The following is added to the first paragraph of Section 8 (No Warranties):\par
\par
Although IBM specifies that there are no warranties, Licensee may have certain rights under the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 or other legislation and are only limited to the extent permitted by the applicable legislation.\par
\par
10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable\par
\par
The following is added to Subsection 10.1 (Items for Which IBM Maybe Liable):\par
\par
Where IBM is in breach of a condition or warranty implied by the Competition and Consumer Act 2010, IBM's liability is limited to the repair or replacement of the goods, or the supply of equivalent goods. Where that condition or warranty relates to right to sell, quiet possession or clear title, or the goods are of a kind ordinarily obtained for personal, domestic or household use or consumption, then none of the limitations in this paragraph apply.\par
\par
HONG KONG SAR, MACAU SAR, AND TAIWAN\par
\par
As applies to licenses obtained in Taiwan and the special administrative regions, phrases throughout this Agreement containing the word "country" (for example, "the country in which the original Licensee was granted the license" and "the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license") are replaced with the following:\par
\par
(1) In Hong Kong SAR: "Hong Kong SAR"\par
\par
(2) In Macau SAR: "Macau SAR" except in the Governing Law clause (Section 14.1)\par
\par
(3) In Taiwan: "Taiwan."\par
\par
INDIA\par
\par
10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable\par
\par
The following replaces the terms of Items 1 and 2 of the first paragraph:\par
\par
1) liability for bodily injury (including death) or damage to real property and tangible personal property will be limited to that caused by IBM's negligence; and 2) as to any other actual damage arising in any situation involving nonperformance by IBM pursuant to, or in any way related to the subject of this Agreement, IBM's liability will be limited to the charge paid by Licensee for the individual Program that is the subject of the claim.\par
\par
13. General\par
\par
The following replaces the terms of Item 13.g:\par
\par
g. If no suit or other legal action is brought, within three years after the cause of action arose, in respect of any claim that either party may have against the other, the rights of the concerned party in respect of such claim will be forfeited and the other party will stand released from its obligations in respect of such claim.\par
\par
INDONESIA\par
\par
3.3 Term and Termination\par
\par
The following is added to the last paragraph:\par
\par
Both parties waive the provision of article 1266 of the Indonesian Civil Code, to the extent the article provision requires such court decree for the termination of an agreement creating mutual obligations.\par
\par
JAPAN\par
\par
13. General\par
\par
The following is inserted as Item 13.n:\par
\par
n. Any doubts concerning this Agreement will be initially resolved between us in good faith and in accordance with the principle of mutual trust.\par
\par
MALAYSIA\par
\par
10.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable\par
\par
The word "SPECIAL" in Item 10.2b is deleted.\par
\par
NEW ZEALAND\par
\par
8. No Warranties\par
\par
The following is added to the first paragraph of this Section 8 (No Warranties):\par
\par
Although IBM specifies that there are no warranties, Licensee may have certain rights under the Consumer Guarantees Act 1993 or other legislation which cannot be excluded or limited. The Consumer Guarantees Act 1993 will not apply in respect of any goods which IBM provides, if Licensee requires the goods for the purposes of a business as defined in that Act.\par
\par
10. Limitation of Liability\par
\par
The following is added:\par
\par
Where Programs are not obtained for the purposes of a business as defined in the Consumer Guarantees Act 1993, the limitations in this Section are subject to the limitations in that Act.\par
\par
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA\par
\par
4. Charges\par
\par
The following is added:\par
\par
All banking charges incurred in the People's Republic of China will be borne by Licensee and those incurred outside the People's Republic of China will be borne by IBM.\par
\par
PHILIPPINES\par
\par
10.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable\par
\par
The following replaces the terms of Item 10.2b:\par
\par
b. special (including nominal and exemplary damages), moral, incidental, or indirect damages or for any economic consequential damages; or\par
\par
SINGAPORE\par
\par
10.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable\par
\par
The words "SPECIAL" and "ECONOMIC" are deleted from Item 10.2b.\par
\par
13. General\par
\par
The following replaces the terms of Item 13.i:\par
\par
i. Subject to the rights provided to IBM's suppliers and Program developers as provided in Section 10 above (Limitation of Liability), a person who is not a party to this Agreement will have no right under the Contracts (Right of Third Parties) Act to enforce any of its terms.\par
\par
TAIWAN\par
\par
10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable\par
\par
The following sentences are deleted:\par
\par
This limit also applies to any of IBM's subcontractors and Program developers. It is the maximum for which IBM and its subcontractors and Program developers are collectively responsible.\par
\par
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA (EMEA) COUNTRY AMENDMENTS\par
\par
EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES\par
\par
8. No Warranties\par
\par
The following is added to Section 8 (No Warranties):\par
\par
In the European Union ("EU"), consumers have legal rights under applicable national legislation governing the sale of consumer goods. Such rights are not affected by the provisions set out in this Section 8 (No Warranties).\par
\par
EU MEMBER STATES AND THE COUNTRIES IDENTIFIED BELOW\par
\par
Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland, Turkey, and any other European country that has enacted local data privacy or protection legislation similar to the EU model.\par
\par
13. General\par
\par
The following replaces Item 13.e:\par
\par
(1) Definitions - For the purposes of this Item 13.e, the following additional definitions apply:\par
\par
(a) Business Contact Information - business-related contact information disclosed by Licensee to IBM, including names, job titles, business addresses, telephone numbers and email addresses of Licensee's employees and contractors. For Austria, Italy and Switzerland, Business Contact Information also includes information about Licensee and its contractors as legal entities (for example, Licensee's revenue data and other transactional information)\par
\par
(b) Business Contact Personnel - Licensee employees and contractors to whom the Business Contact Information relates.\par
\par
(c) Data Protection Authority - the authority established by the Data Protection and Electronic Communications Legislation in the applicable country or, for non-EU countries, the authority responsible for supervising the protection of personal data in that country, or (for any of the foregoing) any duly appointed successor entity thereto.\par
\par
(d) Data Protection & Electronic Communications Legislation - (i) the applicable local legislation and regulations in force implementing the requirements of EU Directive 95/46/EC (on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data) and of EU Directive 2002/58/EC (concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector); or (ii) for non-EU countries, the legislation and/or regulations passed in the applicable country relating to the protection of personal data and the regulation of electronic communications involving personal data, including (for any of the foregoing) any statutory replacement or modification thereof.\par
\par
(e) IBM Group - International Business Machines Corporation of Armonk, New York, USA, its subsidiaries, and their respective Business Partners and subcontractors.\par
\par
(2) Licensee authorizes IBM:\par
\par
(a) to process and use Business Contact Information within IBM Group in support of Licensee including the provision of support services, and for the purpose of furthering the business relationship between Licensee and IBM Group, including, without limitation, contacting Business Contact Personnel (by email or otherwise) and marketing IBM Group products and services (the "Specified Purpose"); and\par
\par
(b) to disclose Business Contact Information to other members of IBM Group in pursuit of the Specified Purpose only.\par
\par
(3) IBM agrees that all Business Contact Information will be processed in accordance with the Data Protection & Electronic Communications Legislation and will be used only for the Specified Purpose.\par
\par
(4) To the extent required by the Data Protection & Electronic Communications Legislation, Licensee represents that (a) it has obtained (or will obtain) any consents from (and has issued (or will issue) any notices to) the Business Contact Personnel as are necessary in order to enable IBM Group to process and use the Business Contact Information for the Specified Purpose.\par
\par
(5) Licensee authorizes IBM to transfer Business Contact Information outside the European Economic Area, provided that the transfer is made on contractual terms approved by the Data Protection Authority or the transfer is otherwise permitted under the Data Protection & Electronic Communications Legislation.\par
\par
AUSTRIA\par
\par
8. No Warranties\par
\par
In Austria (and Germany) the following replaces Section 8 (No Warranties) in its entirety, including its title, if Licensee paid a charge to obtain the Program.\par
\par
8. Warranties and Exclusions\par
\par
The warranty period is twelve months from the date of delivery. The limitation period for consumers in action for breach of warranty is the statutory period as a minimum.\par
\par
The warranty for an IBM Program covers the functionality of the Program for its normal use and the Program's conformity to its specifications.\par
\par
IBM warrants that when the Program is used in the specified operating environment it will conform to its specifications. IBM does not warrant uninterrupted or error-free operation of the Program or that IBM will correct all Program defects. Licensee is responsible for the results obtained from the use of the Program.\par
\par
The warranty applies only to the unmodified portion of the Program.\par
\par
If the Program does not function as warranted during the warranty period and the problem cannot be resolved with information available, Licensee may return the Program to the party from whom Licensee acquired it and receive a refund of the amount Licensee paid. If Licensee down loaded the Program, Licensee may contact the party from whom Licensee acquired it to obtain the refund.\par
\par
This is IBM's sole obligation to Licensee, except as otherwise required by applicable statutory law.\par
\par
10. Limitation of Liability\par
\par
The following is added:\par
\par
The following limitations and exclusions of IBM's liability do not apply for damages caused by gross negligence or willful misconduct.\par
\par
10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable\par
\par
The following replaces the first sentence in the first paragraph:\par
\par
Circumstances may arise where, because of a default by IBM in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement or other liability, Licensee is entitled to recover damages from IBM.\par
\par
In the second sentence of the first paragraph, delete entirely the parenthetical phrase:\par
\par
"(including fundamental breach, negligence, misrepresentation, or other contract or tort claim)".\par
\par
10.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable\par
\par
The following replaces Item 10.2b:\par
\par
b. indirect damages or consequential damages; or\par
\par
BELGIUM, FRANCE, ITALY, AND LUXEMBOURG\par
\par
10. Limitation of Liability\par
\par
The following replaces the terms of Section 10 (Limitation of Liability) in its entirety:\par
\par
Except as otherwise provided by mandatory law:\par
\par
10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable\par
\par
IBM's entire liability for all claims in the aggregate for any damages and losses that may arise as a consequence of the fulfillment of its obligations under or in connection with this Agreement or due to any other cause related to this Agreement is limited to the compensation of only those damages and losses proved and actually arising as an immediate and direct consequence of the non-fulfillment of such obligations (if IBM is at fault) or of such cause, for a maximum amount equal to the charges (if the Program is subject to fixed term charges, up to twelve months' charges) Licensee paid for the Program that has caused the damages.\par
\par
The above limitation will not apply to damages for bodily injuries (including death) and damages to real property and tangible personal property for which IBM is legally liable.\par
\par
10.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable\par
\par
UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES IS IBM OR ANY OF ITS PROGRAM DEVELOPERS LIABLE FOR ANY OF THE FOLLOWING, EVEN IF INFORMED OF THEIR POSSIBILITY: 1) LOSS OF, OR DAMAGE TO, DATA; 2) INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY OR INDIRECT DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY ECONOMIC CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES; AND / OR 3) LOST PROFITS, BUSINESS, REVENUE, GOODWILL, OR ANTICIPATED SAVINGS, EVEN IF THEY ARISE AS AN IMMEDIATE CONSEQUENCE OF THE EVENT THAT GENERATED THE DAMAGES.\par
\par
10.3 Suppliers and Program Developers\par
\par
The limitation and exclusion of liability herein agreed applies not only to the activities performed by IBM but also to the activities performed by its suppliers and Program developers, and represents the maximum amount for which IBM as well as its suppliers and Program developers are collectively responsible.\par
\par
GERMANY\par
\par
8. No Warranties\par
\par
This Section 8 (No Warranties) is amended as specified for AUSTRIA.\par
\par
10. Limitation of Liability\par
\par
The following replaces this Section 10 (Limitation of Liability) in its entirety:\par
\par
a. IBM will be liable without limit for 1) loss or damage caused by a breach of an express guarantee; 2) damages or losses resulting in bodily injury (including death); and 3) damages caused intentionally or by gross negligence.\par
\par
b. In the event of loss, damage and frustrated expenditures caused by slight negligence or in breach of essential contractual obligations, IBM will be liable, regardless of the basis on which Licensee is entitled to claim damages from IBM (including fundamental breach, negligence, misrepresentation, or other contract or tort claim), per claim only up to the greater of 500,000 euro or the charges (if the Program is subject to fixed term charges, up to 12 months' charges) Licensee paid for the Program that caused the loss or damage. A number of defaults which together result in, or contribute to, substantially the same loss or damage will be treated as one default.\par
\par
c. In the event of loss, damage and frustrated expenditures caused by slight negligence, IBM will not be liable for indirect or consequential damages, even if IBM was informed about the possibility of such loss or damage.\par
\par
d. In case of delay on IBM's part: 1) IBM will pay to Licensee an amount not exceeding the loss or damage caused by IBM's delay and 2) IBM will be liable only in respect of the resulting damages that Licensee suffers, subject to the provisions of Items a and b above.\par
\par
13. General\par
\par
The following replaces the provisions of 13.g:\par
\par
g. Any claims resulting from this Agreement are subject to a limitation period of three years, except as stated in Section 8 (No Warranties) of this Agreement.\par
\par
The following replaces the provisions of 13.i:\par
\par
i. No right or cause of action for any third party is created by this Agreement, nor is IBM responsible for any third party claims against Licensee, except (to the extent permitted in Section 10 (Limitation of Liability)) for: i) bodily injury (including death); or ii) damage to real or tangible personal property for which (in either case) IBM is legally liable to that third party.\par
\par
IRELAND\par
\par
8. No Warranties\par
\par
The following sentence is added to the second paragraph of this Section 8 (No Warranties):\par
\par
Except as expressly provided in these terms and conditions, or Section 12 of the Sale of Goods Act 1893 as amended by the Sale of Goods and Supply of Services Act, 1980 (the "1980 Act"), all conditions or warranties (express or implied, statutory or otherwise) are hereby excluded including, without limitation, any warranties implied by the Sale of Goods Act 1893 as amended by the 1980 Act (including, for the avoidance of doubt, Section 39 of the 1980 Act).\par
\par
IRELAND AND UNITED KINGDOM\par
\par
2. Agreement Structure\par
\par
The following sentence is added:\par
\par
Nothing in this paragraph shall have the effect of excluding or limiting liability for fraud.\par
\par
10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable\par
\par
The following replaces the first paragraph of the Subsection:\par
\par
For the purposes of this section, a "Default" means any act, statement, omission or negligence on the part of IBM in connection with, or in relation to, the subject matter of an Agreement in respect of which IBM is legally liable to Licensee, whether in contract or in tort. A number of Defaults which together result in, or contribute to, substantially the same loss or damage will be treated as one Default.\par
\par
Circumstances may arise where, because of a Default by IBM in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement or other liability, Licensee is entitled to recover damages from IBM. Regardless of the basis on which Licensee is entitled to claim damages from IBM and except as expressly required by law without the possibility of contractual waiver, IBM's entire liability for any one Default will not exceed the amount of any direct damages, to the extent actually suffered by Licensee as an immediate and direct consequence of the Default, up to the greater of (1) 500,000 euro (or the equivalent in local currency) or (2) 125% of the charges (if the Program is subject to fixed term charges, up to 12 months' charges) for the Program that is the subject of the claim. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount of any damages for bodily injury (including death) and damage to real property and tangible personal property for which IBM is legally liable is not subject to such limitation.\par
\par
10.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable\par
\par
The following replaces Items 10.2b and 10.2c:\par
\par
b. special, incidental, exemplary, or indirect damages or consequential damages; or\par
\par
c. wasted management time or lost profits, business, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings.\par
\par
Z125-5589-05 (07/2011)\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 