{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0 Arial;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang1033\f0\fs20NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
IBM Order Management Developer Toolkit\par
IBM Call Center Developer Toolkit\par
IBM Store Engagement Developer Toolkit\par
IBM CPQ Developer Toolkit\par
\par
The IBM license agreement and any applicable information on the web\par
download page for IBM products refers Licensee to this file for details\par
concerning notices applicable to code included in the products listed\par
above ("the Program").\par
\par
Notwithstanding the terms and conditions of any other agreement Licensee\par
may have with IBM or any of its related or affiliated entities\par
(collectively "IBM"), the third party code identified below is subject\par
to the terms and conditions of the IBM license agreement for the Program\par
and not the license terms that may be contained in the notices below.\par
The notices are provided for informational purposes.\par
\par
Please note: This Notices file may identify information that is not used\par
by, or that was not shipped with, the Program as Licensee installed it.\par
\par
IMPORTANT: IBM does not represent or warrant that the information in this\par
NOTICES file is accurate. Third party websites are independent of IBM and\par
IBM does not represent or warrant that the information on any third party\par
website referenced in this NOTICES file is accurate. IBM disclaims any\par
and all liability for errors and omissions or for any damages accruing\par
from the use of this NOTICES file or its contents, including without\par
limitation URLs or references to any third party websites.\par
\par
Apache Software License v.1.1: The Program includes all or portions of the following software which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the Apache License Version 1.1, 2000. This software may also\par
consist of voluntary contributions made by many individuals to the Apache Software Foundation. For more information on the Apache Software Foundation, please see http://www.apache.org:\par
\par
-\tab Apache Avalon-Framework 4.0  \par
-\tab Ant-contrib 1.0b2 \par
-\tab Apache Commons-Collections 2.1  \par
-\tab Apache Commons-EL 1.0 \par
-\tab Apache Commons Logging 1.0.3  \par
-\tab Apache FOP 0.20.5  \par
-\tab Apache Log4j 1.2.15\par
-\tab Apache SOAP 1.4\par
-\tab Apache SOAP 2.3.1  \par
-\tab Apache Xerces-J 2.6.2 (obtained via Ant Installer 0.8)\par
-\tab DTDParser 1.2.1   \par
-\tab JDOM 1.0\par
\par
\par
IBM is required to provide you, as the recipient of such software, with a copy of the following license from the Apache Software Foundation:\par
\par
Apache License\par
Version 1.1, 2000\par
http://www.apache.org/licenses/ HYPERLINK "http://www.apache.org/licenses/" \\o "\\"Visit page outside WikiCentral\\" \par
\par
The Apache Software License, Version 1.1\par
 \par
 Copyright (c) 2000 The Apache Software Foundation.  All rights\par
 reserved.\par
 \par
 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 Modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 are met:\par
 \par
  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 \par
  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in  the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 \par
  3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution,\par
if any, must include the following acknowledgment:\par
"This product includes software developed by the Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/)." Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself, if and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear.\par
\par
  4. The names "Apache" and "Apache Software Foundation" must not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without prior written permission. For written permission, please contact apache@apache.org.\par
\par
  5. Products derived from this software may not be called "Apache",nor may "Apache" appear in their name, without prior written permission of the Apache Software Foundation.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE APACHE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
Portions of this software are based upon public domain software originally written at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.\par
\par
END OF APACHE SOFTWARE LICENSE VERSION 1.1 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
\par
APACHE License Version 2.0: The Program includes all or portions of the following\par
software which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the\par
Apache License Version 2.0, January 2004. This software may also\par
consist of voluntary contributions made by many individuals to the\par
Apache Software Foundation. For more information on the Apache Software\par
Foundation, please see http://www.apache.org:\par
\par
-\tab Apache Ant 1.7.0\par
-\tab Apache Ant 1.7.1\par
-  Apache Ant 1.8.1\par
-\tab Apache Axis 1.4  \par
-\tab Apache Batik 1.6  \par
-\tab Apache Commons-BeanUtils 1.7.0\par
-\tab Apache Commons-Betwixt 0.8\par
-  Apache Commons CLI 1.2\par
-\tab Apache Commons-Codec 1.3 \par
-\tab Apache Commons-Collections 3.2.2\par
-\tab Apache Commons-Digester 1.8\par
-\tab Apache Commons-FileUpload 1.3.1\par
-\tab Apache Commons HttpClient 3.0.1 \par
-\tab Apache Commons-IO  2.2\par
-\tab Apache Commons-Lang3-3.1\par
-\tab Apache Commons-Logging 1.0.4\par
-\tab Apache Commons-Net 1.4.1\par
-     Apache Commons-Net 2.2\par
-\tab Apache Struts  2.3.16.3\par
-\tab struts2-core 2.3.16.3\par
-\tab javassist-3.11.0.GA\par
-\tab Apache WSS4J 1.5.1\par
-\tab Apache Geronimo-specs 2.2\par
-\tab Apache Commons-Pool 1.4\par
-\tab Apache Xalan-J 2.7.0\par
-\tab Apache Jakarta Oro 2.0.8\par
-\tab Apache Jakarta Regexp 1.4  \par
-\tab Apache Log4j 1.2.15\par
-\tab Apache Lucene-analyzers 2.4.0  APLv2\par
-\tab Apache Lucene Core 2.4.0  \par
-\tab Apache Lucene Demo 2.40  \par
-\tab Apache Lucene queries 2.4.0  \par
-\tab Apache Lucene Snowball 2.4.0  \par
-\tab Apache Lucene Spellchecker 2.4.0  \par
-\tab Apache XML-APIs 1.3.04  \par
-\tab Apache XML-APIs 1.3.1  \par
-   xwork-core-2.3.16.3.jar\par
-\tab Ant Installer 0.8\par
-  elasticsearch 0.20.1\par
-\tab Ehcache 1.2.4\par
-\tab Ehcache 2.0.1  \par
-\tab Exmorph 1.0.4\par
-  geronimo-ejb_3.1_spec\par
-\tab HttpComponents Httpclient 4.0.1  \par
-\tab HttpComponents HttpCore 4.0.1  \par
-\tab HttpComponents Httpclient 4.2.2  \par
-\tab HttpComponents HttpCore 4.2.2 \par
-\tab Rico 1.1.2\par
-\tab Jini 2.1  \par
-\tab XSLT4J 2.7\par
-\tab commons-httpclient-3.1\par
-\tab Guava 16.0.1\par
-\tab Netty 3.9.0\par
-\tab Datastax java driver forCassandra 2.0\par
-\tab HttpComponents Httpclient 4.3.3\par
-\tab google-gson\tab 2.2.4\par
-\tab metrics-core 3.0.2\par
-      commons-codec-1.6.jar\par
-      commons-io-2.4.jar\par
-      commons-lang-2.3.jar\par
-      commons-logging-1.1.3.jar\par
-      httpcomponents httpclient-4.3.6.jar\par
-      httpcomponents httpcore-4.3.3.jar\par
-      joda-time-2.3.jar\par
-      log4j-1.2.17.jar\par
-      jackson-annotations-2.4.1.jar\par
-      jackson-core-2.4.1.jar\par
-      jackson-databind-2.4.1.jar\par
-      jackson-dataformat-xml-2.4.1.jar\par
-      jackson-jaxrs-base-2.4.1.jar\par
-      jackson-jaxrs-json-provider-2.4.1.jar\par
-      jackson-jaxrs-xml-provider-2.4.1.jar\par
-      jackson-module-jaxb-annotations-2.4.1.jar\par
-      jackson-module-jsonSchema-2.4.1.jar\par
-      jackson-module-scala_2.10-2.4.1.jar\par
-      guava-15.0-cdi1.0.jar\par
-      javassist-3.18.2-GA.jar\par
-      joda-convert-1.6.jar\par
-      Findbugs-jsr305-2.0.1.jar\par
-      woodstox-core-asl-4.1.4.jar\par
-      xercesImpl-2.6.2.jar\par
-      json4s-ast_2.10-3.2.11.jar\par
-      json4s-core_2.10-3.2.11.jar\par
-      json4s-ext_2.10-3.2.11.jar\par
-      json4s-jackson_2.10-3.2.11.jar\par
-      json4s-native_2.10-3.2.11.jar\par
-      swagger-annotations-1.3.12.jar\par
-      swagger-core_2.10-1.3.12.jar\par
-      swagger-jaxrs_2.10-1.3.12.jar\par
-      Swagger UI (Version 2.0.24)\par
-      jsdoc3 V3.3.2\par
-      Commons-collections 3.2.2\par
-      commons_beanutils 1.9.2\par
-      Lucene 4.10.4\par
-      elasticsearch 1.7.1\par
-      jest 0.1.7\par
-      httpcomponents_client 4.5\par
-      httpcomponents_asyncclient 4.1\par
-      httpcomponents_core 4.4.1\par
-      struts2-core-2.3.24.1\par
-      xwork-core-2.3.24.1\par
-      freemarker-2.3.22\par
-      Netty-4.0.33\par
-      Cassandra-driver-core 3.0.0\par
-      Cassandra-driver-mapping 3.0.0\par
-      Cassandra-driver-extra 3.0.0\par
-      ehcache\tab 2.0.1 (ehcache-core)\par
-  commons-lang3-3.2.jar\par
-  freemarker-2.3.22.jar \par
-  javassist-3.11.0.GA.jar\par
-  ognl-3.0.19.jar\par
-  struts2-core-2.3.32.jar\par
-  xwork-core-2.3.32.jar\par
-  Commons-io-2.2.jar\par
-  commons-logging-1.1.3.jar\par
\par
-  commons-fileupload-1.3.2.jar\par
-  freemarker-2.3.28.jar\par
-  ognl-3.0.21.jar\par
-  struts2-core-2.3.35.jar\par
-  xwork-core-2.3.35.jar\par
\par
-  commons-fileupload-1.3.3.jar\par
\par
IBM is required to provide you, as the recipient of such software, with\par
a copy of the following license from the Apache Software Foundation:\par
\par
Apache License\par
Version 2.0, January 2004\par
http://www.apache.org/licenses/\par
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION\par
1. Definitions.\par
"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,\par
and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.\par
"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the\par
copyright owner that is granting the License.\par
"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other\par
entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control\par
with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means\par
(i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management\par
of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of\par
fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii)\par
beneficial ownership of such entity.\par
"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising\par
permissions granted by this License.\par
\par
"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,\par
including but not limited to software source code, documentation\par
source, and configuration files.\par
"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical\par
transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not\par
limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and\par
conversions to other media types.\par
"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object\par
form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright\par
notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is\par
provided in the Appendix below).\par
"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object\par
form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the\par
editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications\par
represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes\par
of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain\par
separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,\par
the Work and Derivative Works thereof.\par
"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the\par
original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that\par
Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to\par
Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an\par
individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the\par
copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted" means\par
any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to the\par
Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to\par
communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,\par
and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the\par
Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but\par
excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise\par
designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."\par
"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on\par
behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and\par
subsequently incorporated within the Work.\par
2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of\par
this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,\par
worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable\par
copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly\par
display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and such\par
Derivative Works in Source or Object form.\par
3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this\par
License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide,\par
non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated\par
in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell,\par
sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license\par
applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that\par
are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by\par
combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such\par
Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation\par
against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a\par
lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within\par
the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then\par
any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work\par
shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.\par
4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work\par
or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without\par
modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the\par
following conditions:\par
(a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works\par
a copy of this License; and\par
(b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices\par
stating that You changed the files; and\par
(c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that\par
You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution\par
notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that\par
do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and\par
(d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its\par
distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must\par
include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within\par
such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any\par
part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places:\par
within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works;\par
within the Source form or documentation, if provided along with the\par
Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative\par
Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The\par
contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do\par
not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices within\par
Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to\par
the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such additional\par
attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying the License.\par
You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may\par
provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use,\par
reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such\par
Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and\par
distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated\par
in this License.\par
5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,\par
any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by\par
You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this\par
License, without any additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding\par
the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any\par
separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor\par
regarding such Contributions.\par
6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade\par
names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,\par
except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the\par
origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.\par
7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed\par
to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor\par
provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR\par
CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without\par
limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT,\par
MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely\par
responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or\par
redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your\par
exercise of permissions under this License.\par
8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,\par
whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless\par
required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent\par
acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You\par
for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or\par
consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this\par
License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but\par
not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer\par
failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or\par
losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility\par
of such damages.\par
9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the\par
Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a\par
fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability\par
obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in\par
accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on\par
Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and\par
only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor\par
harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted against,\par
such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such warranty or\par
additional liability.\par
\par
END OF APACHE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
\par
Artistic License:  The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Artistic License (source code available via the indicated URL):\par
\par
-\tab JSdoc Toolkit 2.0.0  http://code.google.com/p/jsdoc-toolkit/ \par
\par
\par
END OF THE ARTISTIC LICENSE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
\par
BSD License:  The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the BSD License: \par
\par
-\tab Antisamy 1.4.3  Copyright (c) 2007-2010, Arshan Dabirsiaghi, Jason Li.  All rights reserved.\par
-\tab DOM4J 1.5.2  Copyright 2001-2004 (C) MetaStuff, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.\par
-\tab Esapi 2.0.1  (also known as Owasp Esapi), Copyright c 2007 - The OWASP Foundation.\par
-\tab FreeMarker 2.3.19  Copyright (c) 2003 The Visigoth Software Society. All rights reserved.\par
-\tab JS Beautify 1.1  Copyright (c) 2009 Einar Lielmanis.  All Rights Reserved.\par
-\tab JGoodies Looks  1.2.2  Copyright (c) 2003 JGoodies Karsten Lentzsch. All Rights Reserved.  Copyright (c) 2004 JGoodies Karsten Lentzsch. All Rights Reserved.  Copyright (c) 2002-2004 JGoodies Karsten Lentzsch. All Rights Reserved. (obtained via Ant Installer 0.8)\par
-\tab Purple Tech. Java Source files No Version  Copyright (c) 1995-2000 Purple Technology, Inc. All rights reserved.\par
-\tab jsch-0.1.52\par
-\tab Sinon\tab 1.12.1\par
-\tab scala-library\tab 2.10.4\par
-\tab scala-reflect\tab 2.10.4\par
-\tab Paranamer\tab 2.6\par
-\tab scala-compiler\tab 2.10.0\par
-\tab scala-scalap\tab 2.10.0\par
-\tab stax2-API\tab 3.1.4\par
\par
BSD License \par
\par
Copyright (c) <YEAR>, <OWNER>\par
All rights reserved.\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\'c3\'a4\tab Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\'c3\'a4\tab Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\'c3\'a4\tab Neither the name of the <ORGANIZATION> nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF BSD LICENSE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
\par
Daniel Veillard License:  The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Daniel Veillard Licenses:\par
\par
-\tab Libxml 2  2.6.6  \par
-\tab Libxml2  2.5.10 \par
-\tab Libxml2  2.7.6  \par
\par
Daniel Veillard License\par
Except where otherwise noted in the source code (e.g. the files hash.c,\par
list.c and the trio files, which are covered by a similar licence but\par
with different Copyright notices) all the files are:\par
\par
 Copyright (C) 1998-2003 Daniel Veillard.  All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy\par
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal\par
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights\par
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell\par
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is fur-\par
nished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in\par
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DANIEL VEILLARD BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of Daniel Veillard shall not\par
be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other deal-\par
ings in this Software without prior written authorization from him.\par
\par
END OF DANIEL VEILLARD LICENSE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
Eclipse Public License:  The Program contains open source software obtained from the Eclipse Foundation (herein collectively referred to as "Eclipse Code"). Notices and important information, including instructions for obtaining source code, for the Eclipse Code may be found in associated "about.html" files ("About Files") that accompany the Eclipse Code. These About Files are provided for informational purposes only, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary therein, your use of such Eclipse Code shall be governed by the terms of the IBM end user license agreement.\par
\par
-\tab Eclipse Platform 3.3.x  (http://archive.eclipse.org/eclipse/downloads/drops/R-3.3-200706251500/index.php )\par
\par
END OF ECLIPSE PUBLIC LICENSE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
\par
\tab  \par
ICU License: The Program includes some or all of the ICU 3.6 software package that IBM obtained under the following Licenses:\par
\par
1)\tab COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1995-2005 International Business Machines Corporation and others\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a\par
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the\par
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including\par
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,\par
distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons\par
to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above\par
copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of\par
the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this\par
permission notice appear in supporting documentation.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS\par
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT\par
OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR\par
HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL\par
INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING\par
FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,\par
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION\par
WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder\par
shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use\par
or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization\par
of the copyright holder.\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
All trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.\par
\par
2)\tab UNICODE, INC. LICENSE AGREEMENT - DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE\par
\par
    Unicode Data Files include all data files under the directories\par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and\par
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/ . Unicode Software includes any source code\par
published in the Unicode Standard or under the directories\par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and\par
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/.\par
\par
    NOTICE TO USER: Carefully read the following legal agreement. BY\par
DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING UNICODE INC.'S DATA FILES\par
("DATA FILES"), AND/OR SOFTWARE ("SOFTWARE"), YOU UNEQUIVOCALLY ACCEPT, AND\par
AGREE TO BE BOUND BY, ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU\par
DO NOT AGREE, DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, DISTRIBUTE OR USE THE DATA FILES\par
OR SOFTWARE.\par
\par
    COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
    Copyright c 1991-2010 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved. Distributed under\par
the Terms of Use in http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.\par
\par
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy\par
of the Unicode data files and any associated documentation (the "Data Files") or\par
Unicode software and any associated documentation (the "Software") to deal in\par
the Data Files or Software without restriction, including without limitation the\par
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of\par
the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the Data Files or\par
Software are furnished to do so, provided that (a) the above copyright notice(s)\par
and this permission notice appear with all copies of the Data Files or Software,\par
(b) both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in\par
associated documentation, and (c) there is clear notice in each modified Data\par
File or in the Software as well as in the documentation associated with the Data\par
File(s) or Software that the data or software has been modified.\par
\par
    THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY\par
KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD\par
PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS\par
NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,\par
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING\par
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA FILES OR\par
SOFTWARE.\par
\par
    Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not\par
be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings\par
in these Data Files or Software without prior written authorization of the\par
copyright holder.\par
\par
\par
END OF ICU  LICENSE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
JSON License:   The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the JSON License:\par
\par
-\tab JSLint  1.0,0 \par
\par
Copyright (c) 2002 Douglas Crockford  (www.JSLint.com)\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of\par
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in\par
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to\par
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies\par
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do\par
so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all\par
copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE\par
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER\par
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,\par
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE\par
SOFTWARE.\par
*/\par
\par
END OF JSON LICENSE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
\par
MIT License:  The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the MIT License:\par
\par
-\tab Curl 7.11.1  \par
-\tab Ext-core 3.0 \par
-\tab JSdoc Toolkit 2.0.0  \par
-\tab libcURL 7.17.1 \par
-\tab libcURL 7.19.6 \par
-\tab Libxml2  2.6.6  \par
-\tab Libxml2  2.5.10 \par
-\tab Libxml2  2.7.6  \par
-\tab Ncurses 5.3 \par
-\tab PrototypeJS (JavaScript Framework) 1.4.0\par
-\tab SLF4J 1.5.6  \par
-\tab AngularJS 1.4.3\par
-\tab angular-sanitize 1.4.3\par
-\tab angular-animate 1.4.3\par
-\tab angular-route 1.4.3\par
-\tab angular-resource 1.4.3\par
-\tab angular-mocks 1.4.3\par
-\tab angular-translate 2.7.2\par
-\tab angular-aria 1.4.3\par
-\tab angular-translate-loader-static-files 2.7.2\par
-\tab slf4j-api 1.6.3\par
-\tab jQuery\tab 2.1.4\par
-\tab jQuery-ui 1.11.3\par
-\tab bardjs\tab 0.0.9\par
-\tab Bootstrap 3.3.1\par
-\tab angularJS 1.4.7\par
-\tab angular-animate\tab  1.4.7\par
-\tab angular-aria\tab 1.4.7\par
-\tab angular-touch\tab 1.4.7\par
-\tab angular-i18n\tab 1.4.7\par
-\tab Angular-messages 1.4.7\par
-\tab angular-sanitize 1.4.7\par
-\tab angular-bootstrap 0.14.3\par
-\tab i18next\tab 1.10.3\par
-\tab angular-jsdoc\tab V1.2.1\par
-   slf4j-api-1.7.12.jar \par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in\par
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
END OF MIT LICENSE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
\par
Mozilla Public License:  The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Mozilla Public License Version 1.1 (source code available via the indicated URL)::  \par
\par
-\tab Jslib 1.0 https://www.mozdev.org/projects/overview/jslib/ \par
-\tab Ieemu 1.0.0    http://webfx.eae.net/dhtml/contextmenu/js/ \par
-\tab Rhino 1.7 R1  http://www.mozilla.org/rhino/\par
\par
\par
END OF MOZILLA PUBLIC LICENSE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
Mozilla Public License: v2.0 : \par
\par
This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public\par
  License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this\par
  file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.\par
\par
(source code available via the indicated URL):\par
\par
-\tab Rhino 1.7 R4  http://www.mozilla.org/rhino/\par
\par
END OF MOZILLA PUBLIC LICENSE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
\par
Netscape Public License:  The Program includes some or all of the following that IIBM obtained under the Netscape Public License Version 1.1 (source code available via the indicated URL ): \par
\par
-\tab Install.js Copyright (C) 1998 Netscape Communications Corporation. All Rights Reserved. (obtained via JsLib 1.0)  URL: https://www.mozdev.org/projects/overview/jslib/\par
\par
\par
END OF NETSCAPE PUBLIC LICENSE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
\par
OpenSymphony Software License:  The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the OpenSymphony Software License: \par
\par
-\tab OGNL 3.0.6 Copyright (c) 2001-2004 The OpenSymphony Group. All rights reserved.\par
 The OpenSymphony Software License, Version 1.1\par
 *\par
 * (this license is derived and fully compatible with the Apache Software\par
 * License - see http://www.apache.org/LICENSE.txt)\par
 *\par
 * Copyright (c) 2001-2004 The OpenSymphony Group. All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 *\par
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in\par
 *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
 *    distribution.\par
 *\par
 * 3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution,\par
 *    if any, must include the following acknowledgment:\par
 *       "This product includes software developed by the\par
 *        OpenSymphony Group (http://www.opensymphony.com/)."\par
 *    Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself,\par
 *    if and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear.\par
 *\par
 * 4. The names "OpenSymphony" and "The OpenSymphony Group"\par
 *    must not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this\par
 *    software without prior written permission. For written\par
 *    permission, please contact license@opensymphony.com .\par
 *\par
 * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSymphony"\par
 *    or "XWork", nor may "OpenSymphony" or "XWork" appear in their\par
 *    name, without prior written permission of the OpenSymphony Group.\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED\par
 * WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES\par
 * OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
 * DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE APACHE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION OR\par
 * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,\par
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
 * LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF\par
 * USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND\par
 * ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,\par
 * OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT\par
 * OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
 * SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF OPENSYMPHONY LICENSE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
\par
SAX License:  The Program includes some of all of the following obtained by IBM under the  SAX License:\par
\par
-\tab SAX Simple API for XML  2.0.1 (obtained via Ant Installer 0.8)\par
\par
SAX License\par
SAX2 is Free!\par
\par
I hereby abandon any property rights to SAX 2.0 (the Simple API for\par
XML), and release all of the SAX 2.0 source code, compiled code, and\par
documentation contained in this distribution into the Public Domain.\par
SAX comes with NO WARRANTY or guarantee of fitness for any\par
purpose.\par
\par
David Megginson, david@megginson.com\par
2000-05-05\par
\par
END OF SAX LICENSE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
\par
W3C Software Notice and License:   The Program includes some of all of the following obtained by IBM under the W3C Software Notice and License:\par
\par
-\tab DOM 1.0  (obtained via Ant Installer 0.8)\par
\par
W3C License (DOM)\par
This license came from: http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/copyright-software-19980720 W3C\'e2\'80\'99 SOFTWARE NOTICE AND LICENSE Copyright c 1994-2001 World Wide Web Consortium, World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). All Rights Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/ This W3C work (including software, documents, or other related items) is being provided by the copyright holders under the following license. By obtaining, using and/or copying this work, you (the licensee) agree that you have read, understood, and will comply with the following terms and conditions: Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation, with or without modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies of the software and documentation or portions thereof, including modifications, that you make: The full text of this NOTICE in a location viewable to users of the redistributed or derivative work. Any pre-existing intellectual property disclaimers, notices, or terms and conditions. If none exist, a short notice of the following form (hypertext is preferred, text is permitted) should be used within the body of any redistributed or derivative code: "Copyright c [$date-of-software] World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). All Rights Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/" Notice of any changes or modifications to the W3C files, including the date changes were made. (We recommend you provide URIs to the location from which the code is derived.) THIS SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS. COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION. The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to the software without specific, written prior permission. Title to copyright in this software and any associated documentation will at all times remain with copyright holders. ____________________________________ This formulation of W3C's notice and license became active on August 14 1998 so as to improve compatibility with GPL. This version ensures that W3C software licensing terms are no more restrictive than GPL and consequently W3C software may be distributed in GPL packages. See the older formulation for the policy prior to this date. Please see our Copyright FAQ for common questions about using materials from our site, including specific terms and conditions for packages like libwww, Amaya, and Jigsaw. Other questions about this notice can be directed to site-policy@w3.org. webmaster.\par
\par
END OF W3C SOFTWARE NOTICE AND LICENSE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
===========================================================================================================\par
NOTICES FOR XML4J\par
\par
XML4J:  The Program includes all or portions of the following software which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the listed Licenses:\par
\par
APACHE LICENSE VERSION 2.0:  \par
\tab =========================================================================\par
   ==  NOTICE file corresponding to section 4(d) of the Apache License,   ==\par
   ==  Version 2.0, in this case for the Apache Xerces Java distribution. ==\par
   =========================================================================\par
\par
   Apache Xerces Java\par
   Copyright 1999-2006 The Apache Software Foundation.\par
\par
   This product includes software developed at\par
   The Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).\par
\par
   Portions of this software were originally based on the following:\par
     - software copyright (c) 1999, IBM Corporation., http://www.ibm.com.\par
     - software copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems., http://www.sun.com.\par
     - voluntary contributions made by Paul Eng on behalf of the \par
       Apache Software Foundation that were originally developed at iClick, Inc.,\par
       software copyright (c) 1999.\par
\par
\par
SERIALIZER.NOTICE.TXT:\par
=========================================================================\par
   ==  NOTICE file corresponding to section 4(d) of the Apache License,   ==\par
   ==  Version 2.0, in this case for the Apache Xalan serializer          ==\par
   ==  distribution.                                                      ==\par
   =========================================================================\par
\par
   This product includes software developed by IBM Corporation (http://www.ibm.com)\par
   and The Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).\par
\par
   Portions of this software was originally based on the following:\par
     - software copyright (c) 1999-2002, Lotus Development Corporation.,\par
       http://www.lotus.com.\par
     - software copyright (c) 2001-2002, Sun Microsystems.,\par
       http://www.sun.com.\par
     - software copyright (c) 2003, IBM Corporation., http://www.ibm.com.\par
\par
\par
END OF SERIALIZER.NOTICE.TXT\par
\par
\par
=========================================================================\par
   ==  NOTICE file corresponding to section 4(d) of the Apache License,   ==\par
   ==  Version 2.0, in this case for the Apache Xalan serializer          ==\par
   ==  distribution.                                                      ==\par
   =========================================================================\par
\par
   This product includes software developed by IBM Corporation (http://www.ibm.com)\par
   and The Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).\par
\par
   Portions of this software was originally based on the following:\par
     - software copyright (c) 1999-2002, Lotus Development Corporation.,\par
       http://www.lotus.com.\par
     - software copyright (c) 2001-2002, Sun Microsystems.,\par
       http://www.sun.com.\par
     - software copyright (c) 2003, IBM Corporation., http://www.ibm.com.\par
\par
\par
END OF APACHE LICENSE VERSION 2.0 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
\par
W3C\'e2\'80\'99 SOFTWARE NOTICE AND LICENSE\par
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/copyright-software-20021231\par
This work (and included software, documentation such as READMEs, or other related items) is being provided by the copyright holders under the following license. By obtaining, using and/or copying this work, you (the licensee) agree that you have read, understood, and will comply with the following terms and conditions.\par
Permission to copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation, with or without modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies of the software and documentation or portions thereof, including modifications:\par
1.\tab The full text of this NOTICE in a location viewable to users of the redistributed or derivative work. \par
2.\tab Any pre-existing intellectual property disclaimers, notices, or terms and conditions. If none exist, the W3C Software Short Notice should be included (hypertext is preferred, text is permitted) within the body of any redistributed or derivative code. \par
3.\tab Notice of any changes or modifications to the files, including the date changes were made. (We recommend you provide URIs to the location from which the code is derived.) \par
THIS SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.\par
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION.\par
The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to the software without specific, written prior permission. Title to copyright in this software and any associated documentation will at all times remain with copyright holders.\par
____________________________________\par
This formulation of W3C's notice and license became active on December 31 2002. This version removes the copyright ownership notice such that this license can be used with materials other than those owned by the W3C, reflects that ERCIM is now a host of the W3C, includes references to this specific dated version of the license, and removes the ambiguous grant of "use". Otherwise, this version is the same as the previous version and is written so as to preserve the Free Software Foundation's assessment of GPL compatibility and OSI's certification under the Open Source Definition. Please see our Copyright FAQ for common questions about using materials from our site, including specific terms and conditions for packages like libwww, Amaya, and Jigsaw. Other questions about this notice can be directed to site-policy@w3.org.\par
 \par
Joseph Reagle <mailto:site-policy@w3.org \par
Last revised by Reagle $Date: 2004-04-06 13:20:26 -0400 (Tue, 06 Apr 2004) $\par
END OF W3C NOTICES AND LICENSE INFORMATION\par
___\par
W3C\'e2\'80\'99 DOCUMENT LICENSE\par
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/copyright-documents-20021231\par
Public documents on the W3C site are provided by the copyright holders under the following license. By using and/or copying this document, or the W3C document from which this statement is linked, you (the licensee) agree that you have read, understood, and will comply with the following terms and conditions:\par
Permission to copy, and distribute the contents of this document, or the W3C document from which this statement is linked, in any medium for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies of the document, or portions thereof, that you use:\par
1.\tab A link or URL to the original W3C document. \par
2.\tab The pre-existing copyright notice of the original author, or if it doesn't exist, a notice (hypertext is preferred, but a textual representation is permitted) of the form: "Copyright c [$date-of-document] World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, European Research Consortium for Informatics and Mathematics, Keio University). All Rights Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/copyright-documents-20021231" \par
3.\tab If it exists, the STATUS of the W3C document. \par
When space permits, inclusion of the full text of this NOTICE should be provided. We request that authorship attribution be provided in any software, documents, or other items or products that you create pursuant to the implementation of the contents of this document, or any portion thereof.\par
No right to create modifications or derivatives of W3C documents is granted pursuant to this license. However, if additional requirements (documented in the Copyright FAQ) are satisfied, the right to create modifications or derivatives is sometimes granted by the W3C to individuals complying with those requirements.\par
THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE; NOR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.\par
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.\par
The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to this document or its contents without specific, written prior permission. Title to copyright in this document will at all times remain with copyright holders.\par
----------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
This formulation of W3C's notice and license became active on December 31 2002. This version removes the copyright ownership notice such that this license can be used with materials other than those owned by the W3C, moves information on style sheets, DTDs, and schemas to the Copyright FAQ, reflects that ERCIM is now a host of the W3C, includes references to this specific dated version of the license, and removes the ambiguous grant of "use". See the older formulation for the policy prior to this date. Please see our Copyright FAQ for common questions about using materials from our site, such as the translating or annotating specifications. Other questions about this notice can be directed to site-policy@w3.org.\par
Joseph Reagle <mailto:site-policy@w3.org \par
Last revised by Reagle $Date: 2004-04-06 13:20:26 -0400 (Tue, 06 Apr 2004) $\par
END of W3C DOCUMENT NOTICES AND LICENSE INFORMATION\par
\par
END OF XML4J NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
===========================================================================================================\par
===========================================================================================================\par
\par
===========================================================================================================\par
ECLIPSE HELP SYSTEM\par
\par
The following subset of open source software was obtained from the Eclipse Foundation: Eclipse Help System, Jetty, Lucene, Lucene HTML Parser.  Notices and important information, including instructions for obtaining source code, for the Eclipse Code may be found in associated "about.html" files ("About Files") that accompany the Eclipse Code.  These About Files are provided for informational purposes only, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary therein, your use of such Eclipse Code shall be governed by the terms of the IBM end-user license agreement.\par
\par
END OF ECLIPSE HELP SYSTEM NOTICES AND LICENSE INFORMATION\par
==========================================================================================================\par
==========================================================================================================\par
\par
  \par
SUN JRE:  The Program includes some or all of the following IBM obtained pursuant to a commercial agreement with Sun (notice information location) :\par
-\tab JavaBeans Activation Framework 1.1\par
-\tab Java Communication API 2.0 (<INSTALL>/jar/comm/2_0/director)\par
-\tab JavaMail 1.4 (INSTALL>/jar/1_4 directory)\par
-\tab Sun Webapp Dtd 2.2, 2.3  (<INSTALL>/repository/eardata/platform/war/WEB-INF/1_4/3RD-PARTY-LICENSE.txt)\par
\par
END OF SUN JRE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
==========================================================================================================\par
Start of Part of Notices content for  IBM Support Assistant Data Collector 2.0.1\par
==========================================================================================================\par
\par
JSch 0.0.* was released under the GNU LGPL license.+ Later, we have switched over to a BSD-style license.\par
\par
------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
Copyright (c) 2002,2003,2004,2005,2006,2007,2008 Atsuhiko Yamanaka, JCraft,Inc.\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
+ 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
+ 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
+ 3. The names of the authors may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL JCRAFT, INC. OR ANY CONTRIBUTORS TO THIS SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF JSch NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================================================+ \par
\par
==========================================================================================================\par
End of Part of Notices content for  IBM Support Assistant Data Collector 2.0.1\par
==========================================================================================================\par
\par
The following subset of open source software was obtained from the Eclipse Foundation: Eclipse Help System, Jetty, Lucene, Lucene HTML Parser. Notices and important information, including instructions for obtaining source code, for the Eclipse Code may be found in associated \'ef\'bf\'bdabout.html\'c5\rquote  files (\'ef\'bf\'bdAbout Files\'c5\rquote ) that accompany the Eclipse Code. These About Files are provided for informational purposes only, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary therein, your use of such Eclipse Code shall be governed by the terms of the IBM end-user license agreement. \par
\par
END OF IBM Eclipse Help System Notices Information\par
\par
\par
\par
==================================================================================\par
DOJO 1.9 Notice File Starts\par
===================================================================================\par
\par
DOJO TOOLKIT: The Program includes the Dojo Toolkit 1.9 software which IBM\par
obtained under the terms and conditions of the following license:\par
 \par
 \par
Copyright (c) 2005-2014, The Dojo Foundation\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this\par
    list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,\par
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation\par
    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
  * Neither the name of the Dojo Foundation nor the names of its contributors\par
    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software\par
    without specific prior written permission.\par
 \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND\par
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED\par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR\par
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER\par
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,\par
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE\par
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
======================================================================\par
APACHE CODE. The Program includes all or portions of the following \par
software which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the Apache License Version \par
2.0, January 2004.  This software may also consist of voluntary contributions made by \par
many individuals to the Apache Software Foundation.  For more information on the Apache \par
Software Foundation, please see http://www.apache.org:\par
\par
*\tab OpenAjax.js  Open Ajax hub 1.0 library\par
*\tab Util/less  Less.js 1.1.4 library\par
\par
IBM is required to provide you, as the recipient of such software, \par
with a copy of the following license notice from the Apache Software \par
Foundation:  \par
\par
Apache License\par
Version 2.0, January 2004\par
http://www.apache.org/licenses/\par
\par
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION\par
\par
1. Definitions.\par
\par
"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, \par
and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.\par
\par
"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the \par
copyright owner that is granting the License.\par
\par
"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other \par
entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control \par
with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means \par
(i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or \par
management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) \par
ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or \par
(iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.\par
\par
"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising \par
permissions granted by this License.\par
\par
"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, \par
including but not limited to software source code, documentation \par
source, and configuration files.\par
\par
"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical \par
transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not \par
limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and \par
conversions to other media types.\par
\par
"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object \par
form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright \par
notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is \par
provided in the Appendix below).\par
\par
"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object \par
form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the \par
editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications \par
represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the \par
purposes of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works \par
that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the \par
interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.\par
\par
"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the \par
original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to \par
that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted \par
to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an \par
individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the \par
copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted" \par
means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to \par
the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to \par
communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control \par
systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf \par
of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, \par
but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise \par
designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."\par
\par
"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity \par
on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and \par
subsequently incorporated within the Work.\par
\par
2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of \par
this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, \par
worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable \par
copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly \par
display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and \par
such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.\par
\par
3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of \par
this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, \par
worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except \par
as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,  use, \par
offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where \par
such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such \par
Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) \par
alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to \par
which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent \par
litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim \par
in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated \par
within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent \par
infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this \par
License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation \par
is filed.\par
\par
4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work \par
or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without \par
modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet \par
the following conditions:\par
\par
     (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative \par
     Works a copy of this License; and\par
\par
     (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices \par
     stating that You changed the files; and\par
\par
     (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works \par
     that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and \par
     attribution notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding \par
     those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative \par
     Works; and\par
\par
     (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its \par
     distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must \par
     include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained \par
     within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not \par
     pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of \par
     the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as \par
     part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or \par
     documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or, \par
     within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and \par
     wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents \par
     of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not \par
     modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices \par
     within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an \par
     addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such \par
     additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying \par
     the License.\par
\par
You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may \par
provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, \par
reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such \par
Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and \par
distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated \par
in this License.\par
\par
5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, \par
any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by \par
You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this \par
License, without any additional terms or conditions.  Notwithstanding \par
the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any \par
separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor \par
regarding such Contributions.\par
\par
6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade \par
names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, \par
except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the \par
origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.\par
\par
7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed \par
to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor \par
provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR \par
CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without \par
limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, \par
MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely \par
responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or \par
redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your \par
exercise of permissions under this License.\par
\par
8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, \par
whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless \par
required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent \par
acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You \par
for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or \par
consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this \par
License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but \par
not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer \par
failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or \par
losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility \par
of such damages.\par
\par
9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing \par
the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and \par
charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other \par
liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. \par
However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own \par
behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other \par
Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each \par
Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted \par
against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such \par
warranty or additional liability.\par
\par
END OF APACHE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
======================================================================\par
CSS Styles from Yahoo Widget Library.  The Program includes all or portions of the \par
following software which was obtained under the terms and conditions of the BSD License.\par
\par
CSS Styles from  Yahoo Widget Library Library\par
Copyright (c) 2006, Yahoo! Inc.\par
 All rights reserved.\par
 Redistribution and use of this software in source and binary forms, with or without \par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of \par
conditions and the following disclaimer. \par
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of \par
conditions and the following disclaimer in the \par
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 * Neither the name of Yahoo! Inc. nor the names of its contributors may be used to \par
endorse or promote products derived from this software without \par
specific prior written permission of Yahoo! Inc. \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY \par
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF \par
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL \par
THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, \par
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT \par
OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) \par
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR \par
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS \par
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \par
\par
END OF CSS Styles from Yahoo Widget Library NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
======================================================================\par
Firebug Lite Files.  The Program includes all or portions of the following \par
software which was obtained under the terms and conditions of the \par
BSD License.\par
\par
firebug.html, firebug.js, errIcon.png, infoIcon.png, warningIcon.png:\par
\tab\tab   Distributed under the terms of the BSD License (see below)\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Joe Hewitt\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this\par
\tab list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,\par
\tab this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation\par
\tab and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
  * Neither the name of the Dojo Foundation nor the names of its contributors\par
\tab may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software\par
\tab without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND\par
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED\par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR\par
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER\par
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,\par
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE\par
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF FIREBUG LITE FILES NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
======================================================================\par
Unicode CLDR Data Files.  The Program includes data files\par
which were obtained under the terms and conditions of the following license.\par
 \par
\par
UNICODE, INC. LICENSE AGREEMENT - DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE\par
\par
Unicode Data Files include all data files under the directories \par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, \par
and http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/ . \par
Unicode Software includes any source code published in the Unicode Standard or under the \par
directories http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and \par
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/.\par
\par
NOTICE TO USER: Carefully read the following legal agreement. BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, \par
COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING UNICODE INC.'S DATA FILES ("DATA FILES"), AND/OR SOFTWARE \par
("SOFTWARE"), YOU UNEQUIVOCALLY ACCEPT, AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY, ALL OF THE TERMS AND \par
CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE, DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, \par
DISTRIBUTE OR USE THE DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.\par
\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
Copyright (c) 1991-2007 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved. Distributed under the Terms of \par
Use in http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of the \par
Unicode data files and any associated  documentation (the "Data Files") or Unicode \par
software and any associated documentation (the "Software") to deal in the Data Files or \par
Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, \par
modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell \par
copies of the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the Data Files or \par
Software are furnished to do so, provided  that (a) the above copyright notice(s) and \par
this permission notice appear with all copies of the Data Files or Software, (b) both the \par
above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in associated documentation, \par
and (c) there is clear notice in each modified Data File or in the Software as well as in \par
the documentation associated with the Data File(s) or Software that the data or software \par
has been modified.\par
THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS \par
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A \par
PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE \par
COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY \par
SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS \par
OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS \par
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA FILES OR \par
SOFTWARE.\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in \par
advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in these Data Files \par
or Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder.\par
\par
END OF UNICODE CLDR DATA FILES NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
======================================================================\par
Json.php  is used in a number of test cases and redistributed under terms of the New BSD \par
License.  Note that this content is not governed by the JSON license (good vs evil) from \par
JSON.org (http://www.json.org/license.html). \par
copyright (c) 2005 Michal Migurski\par
\par
\par
dojox/lang/functional.js - parts of this module (most notably lamda, constFun, invoke, \par
pluck, and partial) are based on work by Oliver Steele \par
(http://osteele.com/sources/javascript/functional/functional.js)\par
which was published under MIT License\par
\par
Javascript language helper functions: The Program includes all or portions of the \par
following software which was obtained under the terms and conditions of the MIT \par
License.\par
\par
dojox/lang/functional.js\par
Copyright (c) 2007 Oliver Steele\par
\par
util/buildscripts/jslib/packer/base2.js, Packer.js, Word.js\par
Copyright (c) 2007 Dean Edwards\par
\par
Dojox/highlight/_base2.js\par
Copyright (c) 2006 Ivan Sagalaev\par
\par
The MIT License\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of \par
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in \par
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to \par
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of \par
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, \par
subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all \par
copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR \par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS \par
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR \par
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER \par
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN \par
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
END OF Javascript language helper functions   \par
\par
======================================================================\par
The following license covers ICU4J.  No parts of ICU4J ship with Dojo; however, \par
the Hebrew date support is ported from ICU4J (as a derivative work):\par
ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later\par
\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1995-2009 International Business Machines Corporation and others\par
\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of \par
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in \par
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to \par
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the \par
Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, \par
provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in \par
all copies of the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this \par
permission notice appear in supporting documentation.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR \par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS \par
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT \par
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY \par
CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES \par
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF \par
CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION \par
WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be \par
used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in \par
this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder.\par
\par
All trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned herein are the property of \par
their respective owners.\par
\par
======================================================================\par
The following license covers US map data in <dojo-directory>/dojox/geo/charting \par
\par
\tab Are there legal restrictions on access or use of the data?\par
\par
\tab\tab Access_Constraints: None \par
\tab\tab Use_Constraints: \par
\tab\tab\tab None. Acknowledgment of the National Atlas of the United \par
States \par
\tab\tab\tab of America and (or) the U.S. Geological Survey would be \par
\tab\tab\tab appreciated in products derived from these data. \par
\par
\tab 1. Who distributes the data set? (Distributor 1 of 1)\par
\par
\tab\tab Earth Science Information Center, U.S. Geological Survey\par
\tab\tab 507 National Center\par
\tab\tab Reston, VA 20192\par
\par
\tab\tab 1-888-ASK-USGS (1-888-275-8747) (voice)\par
\par
\par
\tab\tab Contact_Instructions: \par
\tab\tab\tab In addition to the address above there are other ESIC \par
offices throughout the \tab\par
\tab\tab\tab country. A full list of these offices is at \par
\tab\tab\tab <http://mapping.usgs.gov/esic/esic_index.html>. \par
\par
\tab 2. What's the catalog number I need to order this data set?\par
\par
\tab 3. What legal disclaimers am I supposed to read?\par
\par
\tab\tab Although these data have been processed successfully on a \par
computer system \par
\tab\tab at the U.S. Geological Survey, no warranty expressed or implied \par
is made by the U.S. Geological Survey regarding\par
\tab\tab the utility of the data on any other system, nor shall the act of \par
distribution constitute any such warranty. No\par
\tab\tab responsibility is assumed by the U.S. Geological Survey in the \par
use of these data.\par
\par
\tab 4. How can I download or order the data?\par
\par
\tab\tab Availability in digital form:\par
\tab\tab\tab\par
\tab\tab Data format: ESRI Shapefile  \par
\tab\tab Network links: <http://nationalatlas.gov/atlasftp.html>\par
 \par
\tab\tab Data format: SDTS  \par
\tab\tab Network links: <http://nationalatlas.gov/atlasftp.html>\par
 \par
\par
\tab\tab Cost to order the data: \par
\par
\tab\tab There is no charge for the online option. For National Atlas \par
files ordered on CD-ROM \par
\tab\tab there is a base price of $45.00 per disc, a handling fee of \par
$5.00, and a per-file \par
\tab\tab charge based on file size. The charge for files less than 10 \par
megabytes in size is \par
\tab\tab $1.00. The charge for files that range in size from 10 to 150 \par
megabytes is $7.50. The \par
\tab\tab charge for files of 150 megabytes or larger is $15.00. The charge \par
is $7.50 for the \par
\tab\tab Major Roads of the United States data set.\par
\par
\par
\tab\tab Special instructions:\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab To order files on CD-ROM, please see \par
<http://nationalatlas.gov/atlasftp.html#q12>. \par
\par
======================================================================\par
The following license covers non US map data in <dojo-\par
directory>/dojox/geo/charting \par
\par
\par
Public Domain. All versions of Natural Earth raster + vector map data found on \par
this website are in the public domain.\par
You may use the maps in any manner, including modifying the content and design, \par
electronic dissemination, and offset\par
printing. The primary authors, Tom Patterson and Nathaniel Vaughn Kelso, and all \par
other contributors renounce all\par
financial claim to the maps and invites you to use them for personal, \par
educational, and commercial purposes.\par
\par
No permission is needed to use Natural Earth. Crediting the authors is \par
unnecessary.\par
\par
However, if you wish to cite the map data, simply use one of the following.\par
\par
Short text: Made with Natural Earth.\par
\par
Long text: Made with Natural Earth. Free vector and raster map data @ \par
naturalearthdata.com.\par
\par
All users of Natural Earth are highly encouraged to read about data sources and \par
manipulation in the Data Creation section.\par
\par
The authors provide Natural Earth as a public service and are not responsible \par
for any problems relating to accuracy,\par
content, design, and how it is used. If you find an error or omission, please \par
report it for future updates.\par
\par
The authors used data from The Washington Post, here is their release:\par
\par
    Natural Earth is hereby granted a non-exclusive license to use the data \par
being provided by The Washington Post for\par
    the sole purpose of creating a world base map.  The Washington Post makes no \par
claims as to the completeness, accuracy\par
    or content of the data, and makes no representation of any kind, including, \par
but not limited to, any warranty as to\par
    the accuracy or fitness of the data for a particular use (nor shall the act \par
of distribution constitute any such\par
    warranty). No responsibility is assumed by The Washington Post for any \par
claims arising out of Natural Earths use of\par
    the data.\par
\par
The authors used river and lake data (for Europe only) from the European \par
Commission, Joint Research Centre, Institute\par
for Environment and Sustainability, here is their release:\par
\par
    Natural Earth is hereby granted a non-exclusive license to use the data \par
being provided by European Commission, Joint\par
    Research Centre, Institute for Environment and Sustainability (JRC IES) for \par
the sole purpose of creating a world\par
    base map. The EC JRC IES makes no claims as to the completeness, accuracy or \par
content of the data, and makes no\par
    representation of any kind, including, but not limited to, any warranty as \par
to the accuracy or fitness of the data\par
    for a particular use (nor shall the act of distribution constitute any such \par
warranty). No responsibility is assumed\par
    by EC JRC IES for any claims arising out of Natural Earths use of the data.\par
\par
The authors used road transportation data (for North America only) from XNR \par
Productions, here is their release:\par
\par
    Natural Earth is hereby granted a non-exclusive license to use the data \par
being provided by XNR Productions for the\par
    sole purpose of creating a world base map. XNR makes no claims as to the \par
completeness, accuracy or content of the\par
    data, and makes no representation of any kind, including, but not limited \par
to, any warranty as to the accuracy or\par
    fitness of the data for a particular use (nor shall the act of distribution \par
constitute any such warranty). No\par
    responsibility is assumed by XNR for any claims arising out of Natural \par
Earths use of the data.\par
\par
Happy mapping!\par
\par
======================================================================\par
The following will be added to the notices file for Shrinksafe (and called out \par
in the DOU for Dojo):\par
\par
The Mozilla Public License Version 1.1 covers the optional Shrinksafe build \par
tool, and Mozilla Rhino 1.7r2 which is redistributed with that tool.  Shrinksafe \par
contains modified files from Mozilla Rhino covered under Mozilla Public License \par
Version 1.1.  The source code for these modifications has been made available at \par
the public Dojo svn repository at http://www.dojotoolkit.org.  \par
\par
The Shrinksafe tool requires use of Mozilla Rhino 1.6r7 or higher in order to \par
run.  We are relying on the separate DD Checklist already approved for the Rhino \par
1.7R2 jar. The version of Rhino that will be redistributed with the Shrinksafe \par
package by default is the approved version of Mozilla Rhino 1.7r2.\par
\par
\par
====================================================================================\par
END OF DOJO TOOLKIT NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=====================================================================================\par
\par
\par
JVIEWS V8.8 NOTICES BEGIN\par
\par
NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
JViews Enterprise 8.8\par
JViews Charts 8.8\par
JViews Diagrammer 8.8\par
JViews Gantt 8.8\par
JViews Maps 8.8\par
\par
The IBM license agreement and any applicable information on the web\par
download page for IBM products refers Licensee to this file for details\par
concerning notices applicable to code included in the products listed\par
above ("the Program").\par
\par
Notwithstanding the terms and conditions of any other agreement Licensee\par
may have with IBM or any of its related or affiliated entities\par
(collectively "IBM"), the third party code identified below is subject\par
to the terms and conditions of the IBM license agreement for the Program\par
and not the license terms that may be contained in the notices below.\par
The notices are provided for informational purposes.\par
\par
Please note: This Notices file may identify information that is not used\par
by, or that was not shipped with, the Program as Licensee installed it.\par
\par
IMPORTANT: IBM does not represent or warrant that the information in this\par
NOTICES file is accurate. Third party websites are independent of IBM and\par
IBM does not represent or warrant that the information on any third party\par
website referenced in this NOTICES file is accurate. IBM disclaims any\par
and all liability for errors and omissions or for any damages accruing\par
from the use of this NOTICES file or its contents, including without\par
limitation URLs or references to any third party websites.\par
\par
========================================================\par
\par
APACHE 1.1 CODE. The Programs include all or portions of the following software \par
which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the Apache License  \par
Version 1.1:\par
\par
Batik 1.0beta2, BCEL 5.1, Apache Commons Beanutils 1.6 and Apache Commons \par
Collections 2.1.\par
\par
In addition, the Programs JViews Charts V. 8.8 and JViews \par
Gantt V. 8.8 include Apache FOP 0.20.5. \par
\par
IBM is required to provide you, as the recipient of such software, with a copy \par
of the following license notice from the Apache Software Foundation:  \par
\par
                   The Apache Software License, Version 1.1\par
   \par
 Copyright (C) 2000 The Apache Software Foundation. All rights reserved.\par
 \par
 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modifica-\par
 tion, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
 \par
 1. Redistributions of  source code must  retain the above copyright  notice,\par
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 \par
 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,\par
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation\par
    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 \par
 3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution, if any, must\par
    include  the following  acknowledgment:  "This product includes  software\par
    developed  by the  Apache Software Foundation  (http://www.apache.org/)."\par
    Alternately, this  acknowledgment may  appear in the software itself,  if\par
    and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear.\par
 \par
 4. The names "Batik" and  "Apache Software Foundation"  must not be  used to\par
    endorse  or promote  products derived  from this  software without  prior\par
    written permission. For written permission, please contact\par
    apache@apache.org.\par
 \par
 5. Products  derived from this software may not  be called "Apache", nor may\par
    "Apache" appear  in their name,  without prior written permission  of the\par
    Apache Software Foundation.\par
 \par
 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,\par
 INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND\par
 FITNESS  FOR A PARTICULAR  PURPOSE ARE  DISCLAIMED.  IN NO  EVENT SHALL  THE\par
 APACHE SOFTWARE  FOUNDATION  OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS  BE LIABLE FOR  ANY DIRECT,\par
 INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,  EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL  DAMAGES (INCLU-\par
 DING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT  OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS\par
 OF USE, DATA, OR  PROFITS; OR BUSINESS  INTERRUPTION)  HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON\par
 ANY  THEORY OF LIABILITY,  WHETHER  IN CONTRACT,  STRICT LIABILITY,  OR TORT\par
 (INCLUDING  NEGLIGENCE OR  OTHERWISE) ARISING IN  ANY WAY OUT OF THE  USE OF\par
 THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 \par
 This software  consists of voluntary contributions made  by many individuals\par
 on  behalf  of the Apache Software  Foundation. For more  information on the\par
 Apache Software Foundation, please see <http://www.apache.org/>.\par
\par
END OF APACHE 1.1 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
========================================================\par
\par
APACHE 2.0 CODE. The Programs includes all or portions of the following software \par
which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the Apache License \par
Version 2.0:\par
\par
Apache Ant v1.7.0, Batik 1.7, Apache Tomcat 6.0.14, Apache Xerces-J 2.9.1, \par
Apache Harmony, Apache Commons Digester 1.7, Apache Commons FileUpload 1.2.1, \par
Apache Commons Lang 2.1, Apache Commons Logging 1.1, Apache MyFaces Trinidad 1.2.8, \par
Apache MyFaces 1.1 (ComponentAttributesMap), Apache Lucene 1.4.3, SNMP4J 1.8.2, \par
and IBM Open Ajax Hub 2.0.\par
\par
In addition, the Program JViews Maps V. 8.8 includes TextStroke.\par
\par
\par
IBM is required to provide you, as the recipient of such software, with a copy \par
of the following license notice from the Apache Software Foundation:  \par
\par
      Apache License\par
                           Version 2.0, January 2004\par
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/\par
\par
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION\par
\par
   1. Definitions.\par
\par
      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,\par
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.\par
\par
      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by\par
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.\par
\par
      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all\par
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common\par
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,\par
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the\par
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or\par
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the\par
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.\par
\par
      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity\par
      exercising permissions granted by this License.\par
\par
      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,\par
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation\par
      source, and configuration files.\par
\par
      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical\par
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but\par
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,\par
      and conversions to other media types.\par
\par
      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or\par
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a\par
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work\par
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).\par
\par
      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object\par
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the\par
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications\par
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes\par
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain\par
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,\par
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.\par
\par
      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including\par
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions\par
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally\par
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner\par
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of\par
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"\par
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent\par
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to\par
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,\par
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the\par
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but\par
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise\par
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."\par
\par
      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity\par
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and\par
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.\par
\par
   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of\par
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,\par
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable\par
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,\par
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the\par
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.\par
\par
   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of\par
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,\par
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable\par
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,\par
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,\par
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable\par
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their\par
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)\par
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You\par
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a\par
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work\par
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct\par
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses\par
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate\par
      as of the date such litigation is filed.\par
\par
   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the\par
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without\par
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You\par
      meet the following conditions:\par
\par
      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or\par
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and\par
\par
      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices\par
          stating that You changed the files; and\par
\par
      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works\par
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and\par
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,\par
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of\par
          the Derivative Works; and\par
\par
      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its\par
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must\par
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained\par
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not\par
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one\par
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed\par
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or\par
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,\par
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and\par
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents\par
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and\par
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution\par
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside\par
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided\par
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed\par
          as modifying the License.\par
\par
      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and\par
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions\par
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or\par
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,\par
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with\par
      the conditions stated in this License.\par
\par
   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,\par
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work\par
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of\par
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.\par
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify\par
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed\par
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.\par
\par
   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade\par
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,\par
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the\par
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.\par
\par
   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or\par
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each\par
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,\par
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or\par
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions\par
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A\par
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the\par
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any\par
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.\par
\par
   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,\par
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,\par
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly\par
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be\par
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,\par
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a\par
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the\par
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,\par
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all\par
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor\par
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.\par
\par
   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing\par
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,\par
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,\par
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this\par
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only\par
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf\par
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,\par
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability\par
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason\par
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.\par
\par
END OF APACHE 2.0 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
========================================================\par
\par
========================================================================================================================================================================\par
ICU4J 55 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=========================================================================================================================================================================\par
ICU4J: The Program includes the ICU4J 55 software. IBM obtained the softwareunder the terms and conditions of the following licenses:\par
\par
\par
ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later\par
\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1995-2016 International Business Machines Corporation and others\par
\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder.\par
\par
All trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.\par
Third-Party Software Licenses\par
This section contains third-party software notices and/or additional terms for licensed third-party software components included within ICU libraries.\par
1. Unicode Data Files and Software\par
\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
Copyright c 1991-2016 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved.\par
Distributed under the Terms of Use in \par
http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining\par
a copy of the Unicode data files and any associated documentation\par
(the "Data Files") or Unicode software and any associated documentation\par
(the "Software") to deal in the Data Files or Software\par
without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,\par
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of\par
the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the Data Files\par
or Software are furnished to do so, provided that\par
(a) this copyright and permission notice appear with all copies \par
of the Data Files or Software,\par
(b) this copyright and permission notice appear in associated \par
documentation, and\par
(c) there is clear notice in each modified Data File or in the Software\par
as well as in the documentation associated with the Data File(s) or\par
Software that the data or software has been modified.\par
\par
THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF\par
ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE\par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND\par
NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.\par
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS\par
NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,\par
DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER\par
TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR\par
PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder\par
shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale,\par
use or other dealings in these Data Files or Software without prior\par
written authorization of the copyright holder.\par
\par
2. Chinese/Japanese Word Break Dictionary Data (cjdict.txt)\par
\par
 #    The Google Chrome software developed by Google is licensed under the BSD license. Other software included in this distribution is provided under other licenses, as set forth below.\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab The BSD License\par
 #\tab http://opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php \par
 #\tab Copyright (C) 2006-2008, Google Inc.\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab All rights reserved.\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 #\tab Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 #\tab Neither the name of  Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
 #\tab  \par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab                                              \par
 #\tab The word list in cjdict.txt are generated by combining three word lists listed\par
 #\tab below with further processing for compound word breaking. The frequency is generated\par
 #\tab with an iterative training against Google web corpora. \par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab * Libtabe (Chinese)\par
 #\tab   - https://sourceforge.net/project/?group_id=1519\par
 #\tab   - Its license terms and conditions are shown below.\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab * IPADIC (Japanese)\par
 #\tab   - http://chasen.aist-nara.ac.jp/chasen/distribution.html\par
 #\tab   - Its license terms and conditions are shown below.\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab ---------COPYING.libtabe ---- BEGIN--------------------\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab /*\par
 #\tab  * Copyrighy (c) 1999 TaBE Project.\par
 #\tab  * Copyright (c) 1999 Pai-Hsiang Hsiao.\par
 #\tab  * All rights reserved.\par
 #\tab  *\par
 #\tab  * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 #\tab  * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 #\tab  * are met:\par
 #\tab  *\par
 #\tab  * . Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 #\tab  *   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 #\tab  * . Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 #\tab  *   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in\par
 #\tab  *   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
 #\tab  *   distribution.\par
 #\tab  * . Neither the name of the TaBE Project nor the names of its\par
 #\tab  *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived\par
 #\tab  *   from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
 #\tab  *\par
 #\tab  * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS\par
 #\tab  * "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
 #\tab  * LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS\par
 #\tab  * FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE\par
 #\tab  * REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,\par
 #\tab  * INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES\par
 #\tab  * (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR\par
 #\tab  * SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)\par
 #\tab  * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,\par
 #\tab  * STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)\par
 #\tab  * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED\par
 #\tab  * OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 #\tab  */\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab /*\par
 #\tab  * Copyright (c) 1999 Computer Systems and Communication Lab,\par
 #\tab  *                    Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica.\par
 #\tab  * All rights reserved.\par
 #\tab  *\par
 #\tab  * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 #\tab  * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 #\tab  * are met:\par
 #\tab  *\par
 #\tab  * . Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 #\tab  *   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 #\tab  * . Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 #\tab  *   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in\par
 #\tab  *   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
 #\tab  *   distribution.\par
 #\tab  * . Neither the name of the Computer Systems and Communication Lab\par
 #\tab  *   nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or\par
 #\tab  *   promote products derived from this software without specific\par
 #\tab  *   prior written permission.\par
 #\tab  *\par
 #\tab  * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS\par
 #\tab  * "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
 #\tab  * LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS\par
 #\tab  * FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE\par
 #\tab  * REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,\par
 #\tab  * INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES\par
 #\tab  * (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR\par
 #\tab  * SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)\par
 #\tab  * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,\par
 #\tab  * STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)\par
 #\tab  * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED\par
 #\tab  * OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 #\tab  */\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab Copyright 1996 Chih-Hao Tsai @ Beckman Institute, University of Illinois\par
 #\tab c-tsai4@uiuc.edu  http://casper.beckman.uiuc.edu/~c-tsai4\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab ---------------COPYING.libtabe-----END------------------------------------\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab ---------------COPYING.ipadic-----BEGIN------------------------------------\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab Copyright 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 Nara Institute of Science\par
 #\tab and Technology.  All Rights Reserved.\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab Use, reproduction, and distribution of this software is permitted.\par
 #\tab Any copy of this software, whether in its original form or modified,\par
 #\tab must include both the above copyright notice and the following\par
 #\tab paragraphs.\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab Nara Institute of Science and Technology (NAIST),\par
 #\tab the copyright holders, disclaims all warranties with regard to this\par
 #\tab software, including all implied warranties of merchantability and\par
 #\tab fitness, in no event shall NAIST be liable for\par
 #\tab any special, indirect or consequential damages or any damages\par
 #\tab whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an\par
 #\tab action of contract, negligence or other tortuous action, arising out\par
 #\tab of or in connection with the use or performance of this software.\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab A large portion of the dictionary entries\par
 #\tab originate from ICOT Free Software.  The following conditions for ICOT\par
 #\tab Free Software applies to the current dictionary as well.\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab Each User may also freely distribute the Program, whether in its\par
 #\tab original form or modified, to any third party or parties, PROVIDED\par
 #\tab that the provisions of Section 3 ("NO WARRANTY") will ALWAYS appear\par
 #\tab on, or be attached to, the Program, which is distributed substantially\par
 #\tab in the same form as set out herein and that such intended\par
 #\tab distribution, if actually made, will neither violate or otherwise\par
 #\tab contravene any of the laws and regulations of the countries having\par
 #\tab jurisdiction over the User or the intended distribution itself.\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab NO WARRANTY\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab The program was produced on an experimental basis in the course of the\par
 #\tab research and development conducted during the project and is provided\par
 #\tab to users as so produced on an experimental basis.  Accordingly, the\par
 #\tab program is provided without any warranty whatsoever, whether express,\par
 #\tab implied, statutory or otherwise.  The term "warranty" used herein\par
 #\tab includes, but is not limited to, any warranty of the quality,\par
 #\tab performance, merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose of\par
 #\tab the program and the nonexistence of any infringement or violation of\par
 #\tab any right of any third party.\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab Each user of the program will agree and understand, and be deemed to\par
 #\tab have agreed and understood, that there is no warranty whatsoever for\par
 #\tab the program and, accordingly, the entire risk arising from or\par
 #\tab otherwise connected with the program is assumed by the user.\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab Therefore, neither ICOT, the copyright holder, or any other\par
 #\tab organization that participated in or was otherwise related to the\par
 #\tab development of the program and their respective officials, directors,\par
 #\tab officers and other employees shall be held liable for any and all\par
 #\tab damages, including, without limitation, general, special, incidental\par
 #\tab and consequential damages, arising out of or otherwise in connection\par
 #\tab with the use or inability to use the program or any product, material\par
 #\tab or result produced or otherwise obtained by using the program,\par
 #\tab regardless of whether they have been advised of, or otherwise had\par
 #\tab knowledge of, the possibility of such damages at any time during the\par
 #\tab project or thereafter.  Each user will be deemed to have agreed to the\par
 #\tab foregoing by his or her commencement of use of the program.  The term\par
 #\tab "use" as used herein includes, but is not limited to, the use,\par
 #\tab modification, copying and distribution of the program and the\par
 #\tab production of secondary products from the program.\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab In the case where the program, whether in its original form or\par
 #\tab modified, was distributed or delivered to or received by a user from\par
 #\tab any person, organization or entity other than ICOT, unless it makes or\par
 #\tab grants independently of ICOT any specific warranty to the user in\par
 #\tab writing, such person, organization or entity, will also be exempted\par
 #\tab from and not be held liable to the user for any such damages as noted\par
 #\tab above as far as the program is concerned.\par
 #\tab\par
 #\tab ---------------COPYING.ipadic-----END------------------------------------\par
\par
3. Lao Word Break Dictionary Data (laodict.txt)\par
\par
 #\tab Copyright (c) 2013 International Business Machines Corporation\par
 #\tab and others. All Rights Reserved.\par
 #\par
 #\tab Project:    http://code.google.com/p/lao-dictionary/\par
 #\tab Dictionary: http://lao-dictionary.googlecode.com/git/Lao-Dictionary.txt\par
 #\tab License:    http://lao-dictionary.googlecode.com/git/Lao-Dictionary-LICENSE.txt\par
 #\tab             (copied below)\par
 #\par
 #\tab This file is derived from the above dictionary, with slight modifications.\par
 #\tab --------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
 #\tab Copyright (C) 2013 Brian Eugene Wilson, Robert Martin Campbell.\par
 #\tab All rights reserved.\par
 #\par
 #\tab Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,\par
 #\tab are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
 #\par
 #\tab\tab Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this\par
 #\tab\tab list of conditions and the following disclaimer. Redistributions in binary\par
 #\tab\tab form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and\par
 #\tab\tab the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials\par
 #\tab\tab provided with the distribution.\par
 #\par
 #\tab THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND\par
 #\tab ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED\par
 #\tab WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
 #\tab DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR\par
 #\tab ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES\par
 #\tab (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;\par
 #\tab LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON\par
 #\tab ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT\par
 #\tab (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS\par
 #\tab SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 #\tab --------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
4. Burmese Word Break Dictionary Data (burmesedict.txt)\par
\par
 #\tab Copyright (c) 2014 International Business Machines Corporation\par
 #\tab and others. All Rights Reserved.\par
 #\par
 #\tab This list is part of a project hosted at:\par
 #\tab   github.com/kanyawtech/myanmar-karen-word-lists\par
 #\par
 #\tab --------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
 #\tab Copyright (c) 2013, LeRoy Benjamin Sharon\par
 #\tab All rights reserved.\par
 #\par
 #\tab Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,\par
 #\tab are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
 #\par
 #\tab   Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this\par
 #\tab   list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 #\par
 #\tab   Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this\par
 #\tab   list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or\par
 #\tab   other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 #\par
 #\tab   Neither the name Myanmar Karen Word Lists, nor the names of its\par
 #\tab   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from\par
 #\tab   this software without specific prior written permission.\par
 #\par
 #\tab THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND\par
 #\tab ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED\par
 #\tab WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
 #\tab DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR\par
 #\tab ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES\par
 #\tab (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;\par
 #\tab LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON\par
 #\tab ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT\par
 #\tab (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS\par
 #\tab SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 #\tab --------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
5. Time Zone Database\par
\par
ICU uses the public domain data and code derived from Time Zone Database for its time zone support. The ownership of the TZ database is explained in BCP 175: Procedure for Maintaining the Time Zone Database section 7.\par
\par
7.  Database Ownership\par
\par
   The TZ database itself is not an IETF Contribution or an IETF\par
   document.  Rather it is a pre-existing and regularly updated work\par
   that is in the public domain, and is intended to remain in the public\par
   domain.  Therefore, BCPs 78 [RFC5378] and 79 [RFC3979] do not apply\par
   to the TZ Database or contributions that individuals make to it.\par
   Should any claims be made and substantiated against the TZ Database,\par
   the organization that is providing the IANA Considerations defined in\par
   this RFC, under the memorandum of understanding with the IETF,\par
   currently ICANN, may act in accordance with all competent court\par
   orders.  No ownership claims will be made by ICANN or the IETF Trust\par
   on the database or the code.  Any person making a contribution to the\par
   database or code waives all rights to future claims in that\par
   contribution or in the TZ Database.\par
\par
\par
===========================================================================================================================================================================\par
END OF ICU4J 55 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
===========================================================================================================================================================================\par
\par
SVG DOM: The Program includes the SVG DOM 1.0 software. IBM obtained the \par
software under the following terms and conditions:\par
\par
The W3C Document Notice and License\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2001 World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, \par
Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). \par
All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1994-2001 World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of \par
Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, \par
Keio University). All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
The W3C Document Notice and License can be found at \par
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/copyright-documents-19990405.\par
\par
W3C Software Copyright Notice and License\par
\par
Note: This section is a copy of the W3C Software Copyright Notice and License \par
and could be found at http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/copyright-software-19980720\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1994-2001 World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of \par
Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, \par
Keio University). All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/\par
\par
This W3C work (including software, documents, or other related items) is being \par
provided by the copyright holders under the following license. By obtaining, \par
using and/or copying this work, you (the licensee) agree that you have read, \par
understood, and will comply with the following terms and conditions:\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, and modify this software and its documentation, with \par
or without modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby \par
granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies of the software \par
and documentation or portions thereof, including modifications, that you make:\par
\par
   1. The full text of this NOTICE in a location viewable to users of the \par
  redistributed or derivative work.\par
   2. Any pre-existing intellectual property disclaimers. If none exist, then \par
  a notice of the following form: "Copyright (c) [$date-of-software] World Wide Web \par
  Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Institut National de Recherche \par
  en Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). All Rights Reserved. \par
  http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/\par
."\par
   3. Notice of any changes or modifications to the W3C files, including the date \par
  changes were made. (We recommend you provide URIs to the location from which \par
  the code is derived.)\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS \par
MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT \par
NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR \par
PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE \par
ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.\par
\par
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR \par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION.\par
\par
The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in advertising \par
or publicity pertaining to the software without specific, written prior \par
permission. Title to copyright in this software and any associated \par
documentation will at all times remain with copyright holders. \par
\par
END OF SVG DOM 1.0 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
FACELETS: The Program includes the Facelets 1.1.14 software.\par
IBM obtained the software under the following terms and conditions:\par
\par
Facelets is allowed to release versions of the JavaServer Faces RI and API\par
in binary format, under the CDDL License Agreement.\par
\par
The CDDL license is available on the Web from:\par
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.php\par
\par
The source code for Facelets 1.1.14 is available on the Web from:\par
https://facelets.dev.java.net/\par
\par
END OF FACELETS 1.1.14 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
ECLIPSE MODELING FRAMEWORK: The Program includes parts of the Eclipse Modeling\par
Framework 2.4.1 which is only included in JViews Charts V. 8.8 and \par
JViews Gantt V. 8.8.\par
\par
IBM obtained the software under the terms and conditions of the Eclipse \par
Foundation Software User Agreement;  A copy of the EPL is available at \par
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html\par
\par
END OF ECLIPSE MODELING FRAMEWORK 2.4.1 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
ICEFACES: The Program includes the ICEfaces 1.7.2 software.\par
IBM obtained the software under the terms and conditions of the CDDL 1.O\par
license available on the Web from:\par
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.php\par
\par
The source code for ICEfaces 1.7.2 is available on the Web from:\par
http://www.icefaces.org/main/downloads/os-downloads.iface\par
\par
END OF ICEFACES 1.7.2 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
IBM DOJO TOOLKIT: The Program includes parts of the IBM Dojo Toolkit 1.6\par
software.\par
IBM obtained the software under the following terms and conditions:\par
\par
The "New" BSD License:\par
**********************\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2005-2009, The Dojo Foundation\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this\par
    list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,\par
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation\par
    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
  * Neither the name of the Dojo Foundation nor the names of its contributors\par
    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software\par
    without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND\par
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED\par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR\par
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER\par
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,\par
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE\par
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF IBM DOJO TOOLKIT 1.6 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
PROJ: The Program includes code based on PROJ 4.3 software. Only included\par
in JViews Maps V. 8.8.\par
IBM obtained the software at the following address:\par
\par
http://trac.osgeo.org/proj/ \par
\par
under the following terms and conditions:\par
 \par
 Copyright (c) 2000, Frank Warmerdam\par
\par
 Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a\par
 copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),\par
 to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation\par
 the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,\par
 and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the\par
 Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
 The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included\par
 in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS\par
 OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
 FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL\par
 THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER\par
 LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING\par
 FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER\par
 DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
END OF PROJ 4.3 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
TREE-TABLE DISPLAY CODE: The Program includes part of the Tree-Table display\par
code. Only included in JViews Charts V. 8.8 and JViews\par
Gantt V. 8.8.\par
IBM obtained the software at the following address:\par
\par
http://java.sun.com/products/jfc/tsc/articles/treetable2\par
\par
under the following terms and conditions:\par
\par
 * Copyright 1997, 1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.\par
 * Copyright 1999 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 *\par
 *   - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 *     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 *   - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 *     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
 *     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 *\par
 *   - Neither the name of Sun Microsystems nor the names of its\par
 *     contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived\par
 *     from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS\par
 * IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,\par
 * THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
 * PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR\par
 * CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,\par
 * EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,\par
 * PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR\par
 * PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF\par
 * LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING\par
 * NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS\par
 * SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF TREE-TABLE DISPLAY CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
TABLELAYOUT: The Program includes code based on TableLayout April 21, 2007\par
(https://tablelayout.dev.java.net). \par
IBM obtained the software under the following terms and conditions:\par
\par
 * The Clearthought Software License, Version 1.0\par
 *\par
 * Copyright (c) 2001 Daniel Barbalace. All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 *\par
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 * notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 * 2. The original software may not be altered. However, the classes\par
 * provided may be subclasses as long as the subclasses are not\par
 * packaged in the info.clearthought package or any subpackage of\par
 * info.clearthought.\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED\par
 * WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES\par
 * OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
 * DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR, AFFILATED BUSINESSES,\par
 * OR ANYONE ELSE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,\par
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
 * LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES, LOSS OF\par
 * USE, DATA, OR PROFITS, OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND\par
 * ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,\par
 * OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT\par
 * OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
 * SUCH DAMAGE.\par
       \par
END OF TABLELAYOUT NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
\par
NOTICES AND INFORMATION FOR SUPPORTED STANDARDS\par
\par
===============================================================\par
\par
SVG 1.1 and CSS Level 2\par
\par
W3C(R) DOCUMENT LICENSE\par
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/copyright-documents-20021231\par
Public documents on the W3C site are provided by the copyright holders under the \par
following license. By using and/or copying this document, or the W3C document from \par
which this statement is linked, you (the licensee) agree that you have read, \par
understood, and will comply with the following terms and conditions:\par
Permission to copy, and distribute the contents of this document, or the W3C \par
document from which this statement is linked, in any medium for any purpose and \par
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the following\par
on ALL copies of the document, or portions thereof, that you use:\par
1. A link or URL to the original W3C document. \par
2. The pre-existing copyright notice of the original author, or if it doesn't exist, \par
a notice (hypertext is preferred, but a textual representation is permitted) of the \par
form: "Copyright (C) [$date-of-document] \par
World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, \par
European Research Consortium for Informatics and Mathematics, Keio University). \par
All Rights Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/copyright-documents-20021231" \par
3. If it exists, the STATUS of the W3C document:\par
------------\par
(a) Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) 1.1 \par
http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/\par
Copyright (c) 2003 W3C (r) (MIT, ERCIM, Keio), All Rights Reserved. W3C\par
status: This document is the 14 January 2003 Recommendation of the SVG 1.1 specification. \par
------------\par
(b) Cascading Style Sheets Level 2\par
http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2009 W3C (r) (MIT, ERCIM, Keio), All Rights Reserved. \par
status:W3C Candidate Recommendation\par
\par
END OF SVG 1.1 and CSS Level 2 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================================\par
\par
InstallAnywhere: The Program includes InstallAnywhere 2009 SP1 software.\par
\par
InstallAnywhere 2009 SP1 includes the following:\par
\par
* Apache Ant V1.6.2\par
* Apache Commons Codec 1.3\par
* Apache Regexp V1.2\par
* PNGImage Producer V0.88\par
* BrowserLauncher V1.4b1\par
* HSQLDB V1.7.1\par
* ICU4J V3.6.1\par
* JTOPEN V5.1.1\par
\par
APACHE CODE I.  The Program includes all or portions of the following software developed by \par
the Apache Software Foundation. This software consists of voluntary contributions made by \par
many individuals on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation. For more information on the \par
Apache Software Foundation, please see http://www.apache.org.  \par
\par
* Regexp V1.2\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from the Apache Software \par
Foundation:  \par
\par
/* \par
 * The Apache Software License, Version 1.1\par
 *\par
 * Copyright (C) 2000 The Apache Software Foundation.  All rights\par
 * reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 *\par
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in\par
 *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
 *    distribution.\par
 *\par
 * 3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution,\par
 *    if any, must include the following acknowledgment:\par
 *       "This product includes software developed by the\par
 *        Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/)."\par
 *    Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself,\par
 *    if and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear.\par
 *\par
 * 4. The names "Apache" and "Apache Software Foundation" must\par
 *    not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this\par
 *    software without prior written permission. For written\par
 *    permission, please contact apache@apache.org.\par
 *\par
 * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "Apache",\par
 *    nor may "Apache" appear in their name, without prior written\par
 *    permission of the Apache Software Foundation.\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED\par
 * WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES\par
 * OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
 * DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE APACHE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION OR\par
 * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,\par
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
 * LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF\par
 * USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND\par
 * ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,\par
 * OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT\par
 * OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
 * SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 * ====================================================================\par
 *\par
 * This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many\par
 * individuals on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation.  For more\par
 * information on the Apache Software Foundation, please see\par
 * <http://www.apache.org/>.\par
 *\par
 * Portions of this software are based upon public domain software\par
 * originally written at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications,\par
 * University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.\par
 */\par
\par
END OF APACHE I NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
=======================================\par
\par
APACHE CODE II.  The Program includes all or portions of the following software developed by \par
the Apache Software Foundation.  This software consists of voluntary contributions made by \par
many individuals on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation.  For more information on the \par
Apache Software Foundation, please see http://www.apache.org.  \par
\par
* Commons Codec 1.3\par
* ANT 1.6.2\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from the Apache Software \par
Foundation:  \par
\par
/*\par
 *                                 Apache License\par
 *                           Version 2.0, January 2004\par
 *                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/\par
 *\par
 *   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION\par
 *\par
 *   1. Definitions.\par
 *\par
 *      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,\par
 *      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.\par
 *\par
 *      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by\par
 *      the copyright owner that is granting the License.\par
 *\par
 *      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all\par
 *      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common\par
 *      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,\par
 *      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the\par
 *      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or\par
 *      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the\par
 *      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.\par
 *\par
 *      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity\par
 *      exercising permissions granted by this License.\par
 *\par
 *      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,\par
 *      including but not limited to software source code, documentation\par
 *      source, and configuration files.\par
 *\par
 *      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical\par
 *      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but\par
 *      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,\par
 *      and conversions to other media types.\par
 *\par
 *      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or\par
 *      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a\par
 *      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work\par
 *      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).\par
 *\par
 *      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object\par
 *      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the\par
 *      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other \par
 *      modifications\par
 *      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the \par
 *      purposes\par
 *      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain\par
 *      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces\par
 *      of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.\par
 *\par
 *      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including\par
 *      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions\par
 *      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally\par
 *      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright  \par
 *      owner\par
 *      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of\par
 *      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"\par
 *      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent\par
 *      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to\par
 *      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control \par
 *      systems,and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on \par
 *      behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving\par
 *      the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked\par
 *      or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as\par
 *      "Not a Contribution."\par
 *\par
 *      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity\par
 *      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and\par
 *      subsequently incorporated within the Work.\par
 *\par
 *   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of\par
 *      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,\par
 *      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable\par
 *      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,\par
 *      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the\par
 *      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.\par
 *\par
 *   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of\par
 *      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,\par
 *      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable\par
 *      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,\par
 *      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,\par
 *      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable\par
 *      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their\par
 *      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)\par
 *      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You\par
 *      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a\par
 *      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work\par
 *      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct\par
 *      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses\par
 *      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate\par
 *      as of the date such litigation is filed.\par
 *\par
 *   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the\par
 *      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without\par
 *      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You\par
 *      meet the following conditions:\par
 *\par
 *      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or\par
 *          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and\par
 *\par
 *      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices\par
 *          stating that You changed the files; and\par
 *\par
 *      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works\par
 *          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and\par
 *          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,\par
 *          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of\par
 *          the Derivative Works; and\par
 *\par
 *      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its\par
 *          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must\par
 *          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained\par
 *          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not\par
 *          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one\par
 *          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed\par
 *          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or\par
 *          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,\par
 *          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and\par
 *          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents\par
 *          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and\par
 *          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution\par
 *          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside\par
 *          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided\par
 *          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed\par
 *          as modifying the License.\par
 *\par
 *      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and\par
 *      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions\par
 *      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or\par
 *      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,\par
 *      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with\par
 *      the conditions stated in this License.\par
 *\par
 *   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,\par
 *      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work\par
 *      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of\par
 *      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.\par
 *      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify\par
 *      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed\par
 *      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.\par
 *\par
 *   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade\par
 *      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,\par
 *      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the\par
 *      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.\par
 *\par
 *   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or\par
 *      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each\par
 *      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,\par
 *      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or\par
 *      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions\par
 *      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A\par
 *      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the\par
 *      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any\par
 *      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this\par
 *      License.\par
 *\par
 *   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,\par
 *      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,\par
 *      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly\par
 *      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be\par
 *      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,\par
 *      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a\par
 *      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the\par
 *      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,\par
 *      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all\par
 *      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor\par
 *      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.\par
 *\par
 *   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing\par
 *      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,\par
 *      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,\par
 *      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this\par
 *      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only\par
 *      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf\par
 *      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,\par
 *      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability\par
 *      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason\par
 *      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.\par
 *\par
 *   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
 *\par
 *   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.\par
 *\par
 *      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following\par
 *      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[ ]"\par
 *      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include\par
 *      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate\par
 *      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a\par
 *      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the\par
 *      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier\par
 *      identification within third-party archives.\par
 *\par
 *   Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]\par
 *\par
 *   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");\par
 *   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.\par
 *   You may obtain a copy of the License at\par
 *\par
 *       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0\par
 *\par
 *   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software\par
 *   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,\par
 *   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.\par
 *   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and\par
 *   limitations under the License.\par
 */\par
\par
END OF APACHE II NOTICES AND INFORMATION   \par
========================================\par
\par
BROWSERLAUNCHER CODE.  The Program includes the following BrowserLauncher software:\par
\par
* BrowserLauncher V1.4b1\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from BrowserLauncher:  \par
\par
This code is Copyright 1999-2001 by Eric Albert (ejalbert@cs.stanford.edu) and \par
may be redistributed or modified in any form without restrictions as long as \par
the portion of this comment from this paragraph through the end of the comment \par
is not removed.  The author requests that he be notified of any application, \par
applet, or other binary that makes use of this code, but that's more out of \par
curiosity than anything and is not required.  This software includes no \par
warranty. The author is not repsonsible for any loss of data or functionality \par
or any adverse or unexpected effects of using this software.\par
\par
Credits:\par
Steven Spencer, JavaWorld magazine (http://www.javaworld.com/javaworld/javatips/jw-javatip66.html)\par
Thanks also to Ron B. Yeh, Eric Shapiro, Ben Engber, Paul Teitlebaum, Andrea \par
Cantatore, Larry Barowski, Trevor Bedzek, Frank Miedrich, and Ron Rabakukk\par
\par
@author Eric Albert (ejalbert@cs.stanford.edu)\par
@version 1.4b1 (Released June 20, 2001)\par
\par
END OF BROWSERLAUNCHER NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
==============================================\par
\par
PNGIMAGE PRODUCER CODE.  The Program includes the following PNGImage Producer software:\par
\par
* PNGImage Producer V0.88\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from PNGImage Producer:  \par
\par
// Copyright (c) 1997, Jason Marshall.  All Rights Reserved\par
//\par
// The author makes no representations or warranties regarding the suitability,\par
// reliability or stability of this code.  This code is provided AS IS.  The\par
// author shall not be liable for any damages suffered as a result of using,\par
// modifying or redistributing this software or any derivitives thereof.\par
// Permission to use, reproduce, modify and/or (re)distribute this software is\par
// hereby granted.\par
\par
END OF PNGIMAGE PRODUCER NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
================================================\par
\par
HSQL CODE.  The Program includes the following HSQL Development Group software:\par
\par
* HSQLDB V1.7.1\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from the HSQL \par
Development Group:  \par
\par
/* Copyright (c) 2001-2002, The HSQL Development Group\par
 * All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions  are met:\par
 *\par
 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this\par
 * list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,\par
 * this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation\par
 * and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 *\par
 * Neither the name of the HSQL Development Group nor the names of its\par
 * contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this\par
 * software without specific prior written permission.\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"\par
 * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
 * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL HSQL DEVELOPMENT GROUP, HSQLDB.ORG, \par
 * OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, \par
 * EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, \par
 * PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;\par
 * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND\par
 * ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT\par
 * (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS\par
 * SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 */\par
\par
END OF HSQL NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
===================================\par
\par
ICU CODE.  The Program includes the following ICU software:\par
\par
* ICU4J V3.6.1\par
\par
The source code for ICU is available on the Web from:\par
http://www.icu-project.org/\par
\par
END OF ICU NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
==================================\par
\par
JTOPEN CODE.  The Program includes the following JTOPEN software:\par
\par
* JTOPEN V5.1.1\par
\par
The source code for JTOPEN is available on the Web from:\par
http://www.ibm.com/servers/eserver/iseries/toolbox/downloads.htm\par
\par
END OF JTOPEN NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
=====================================\par
\par
END OF INSTALLANYWHERE 2009 SP1 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
END OF JVIEW V8.8 NOTICES\par
=============================================================================\par
\par
\par
============================================================================================\par
BEGIN Capilano Components (IBM Installation Manager & IBM Packaging Utility) 1.7.3  NOTICES\par
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
IBM Installation Manager and Packaging Utility for the Rational Software Development Platform 1.7.3\par
\par
The IBM license agreement and any applicable information on the web\par
download page for IBM products refers Licensee to this file for details\par
concerning notices applicable to code included in the products listed\par
above ("the Program").\par
\par
Notwithstanding the terms and conditions of any other agreement Licensee\par
may have with IBM or any of its related or affiliated entities\par
(collectively "IBM"), the third party code identified below is subject\par
to the terms and conditions of the IBM license agreement for the Program\par
and not the license terms that may be contained in the notices below.\par
The notices are provided for informational purposes.\par
\par
Please note: This Notices file may identify information that is not used\par
by, or that was not shipped with, the Program as Licensee installed it.\par
\par
IMPORTANT: IBM does not represent or warrant that the information in this\par
NOTICES file is accurate. Third party websites are independent of IBM and\par
IBM does not represent or warrant that the information on any third party\par
website referenced in this NOTICES file is accurate. IBM disclaims any\par
and all liability for errors and omissions or for any damages accruing\par
from the use of this NOTICES file or its contents, including without\par
limitation URLs or references to any third party websites.\par
\par
Apache License 2.0\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Apache License Version 2.0:\par
\par
Apache Commons Codec 1.3.0, Apache Commons El 1.0, Apache Commons Logging 1.0.4, Apache Commons Net 1.4.1, Apache HTTP Client 3.1.0, Apache Lucene 1.9.1, Apache Oro 2.0.8, Apache Tomcat 4.1.30, Apache Tools Ant 1.7.1, Apache HttpComponents HttpClient 4.1.2, Groovy 1.8.4, Commons-CLI 1.2, JSON-Simple 1.1\par
\par
Apache License\par
Version 2.0, January 2004\par
http://www.apache.org/licenses/\par
\par
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION\par
\par
1. Definitions.\par
\par
\'ef\'bf\'bdLicense" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.\par
\par
\'ef\'bf\'bdLicensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright owner that is granting the License.\par
\par
"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.\par
\par
"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising permissions granted by this License.\par
\par
"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and configuration files.\par
\par
"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.\par
\par
"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix below).\par
\par
"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.\par
\par
"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."\par
\par
"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently incorporated within the Work.\par
\par
2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.\par
\par
3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.\par
\par
4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:\par
\par
(a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy of this License; and\par
\par
(b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that You changed the files; and\par
\par
(c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and\par
\par
(d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying the License.\par
\par
You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this License.\par
\par
5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.\par
\par
6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.\par
\par
7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.\par
\par
8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such damages.\par
\par
9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.\par
\par
END OF APACHE LICENSE 2.0 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==============================================================================\par
ECLIPSE CODE\par
The Program contains open source software obtained from the Eclipse Foundation (herein collectively referred to as "Eclipse Code"). Notices and important information, including instructions for obtaining source code, for the Eclipse Code may be found in associated "about.html" files ("About Files") that accompany the Eclipse Code. These About Files are provided for informational purposes only, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary therein, your use of such Eclipse Code shall be governed by the terms of the IBM end user license agreement. \par
Eclipse 4.2.2, Eclipse Communication Framework 3.5.4 (subset), Eclipse Equinox (OSGi Services) 3.8.1, Ant 1.8.3, ASM 3.3.1, Atinject 1.0, Batik 1.6, Cairo Binding, Eclipse Remote Application Platform 2.0, \par
Cairo Library 1.0.2, Cocoa Binding, Commons codec 1.3.0 (subset), Commons Collections (ReferenceMap.java is a derivative of one class) 2.1.1, Commons HttpClient 3.1.0,\par
Commons Logging 1.0.4, DOM 3, DOM SMIL Animation 1.0 Java Binding (subset), DOM SVG Animation Java Binding 1.1.0, Felix Gogo 0.8, Felix 1.6 (SCR API), Hamcrest Core 1.1, ICU4J 4.4.2, Independent JPEG Group's LIBJPEG Release 6b (derivative - subset), iSpell Dictionaries 3.1.20, Java Expression Language API 2.2.0,\par
Java Expression Language Impl 2.2.0, Java Mirror API, Java Server Page API 2.2.0, Java Server Page Impl 2.2.2, Java Servlet API 3.1-b33, Jetty 8.1.3, JSch 0.1.46,\par
Junit 4.10, Junit 3.8.2, Lucene 2.9.1, Mina 2.0.2, Mina SSHD 0.5, Mozilla Binding, OSGi Materials 4.3.0, pixman 0.1.6, Putty 0.58 (derivative of one class),\par
SAT4J 2.3.0 (subset), SAX 2.0.2, Simple API for CSS (SAC) 1.3.0, XHTML DTDs 1.1, XML-APIs 1.3.4, XML4J 4.3, XULRunner 1.9 (subset - 2 header files)\par
\par
END OF ECLIPSE CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==============================================================================\par
ECLIPSE PLATFORM DERIVATIVE CLASSES\par
IBM has made certain modifications to Eclipse code, which modifications are referred to as the "Eclipse Platform 3.3 derivative classes". These modifications have been contributed to the Eclipse Foundation and can be downloaded from www.eclipse.org. Look for the following bug:\par
https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=187614\par
\par
Source code for the unmodified version of these files can be found at www.eclipse.org\par
\par
END OF ECLIPSE PLATFORM DERIVATIVE CLASSES NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
============================================= \par
\par
JRE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
IBM(R) 32-bit Runtime Environment for AIX(R), Java(TM)2 Standard Edition, Version 6.0\par
IBM(R) 32-bit Runtime Environment for HP-UX(R), Java(TM)2 Standard Edition, Version 6.0\par
IBM(R) 32-bit Runtime Environment for Linux(R), Java(TM)2 Standard Edition, Version 6.0\par
IBM(R) 64-bit Runtime Environment for Linux(R), Java(TM)2 Standard Edition, Version 6.0\par
Oracle(R) 64-bit Runtime Environment for Linux(R), Java(TM) 2 Standard Edition, Version 6.0\par
Oracle(R) 64-bit Runtime Environment for Mac OSX(R), Java (TM)2 Standard Edition, Version 7.0\par
IBM(R) 32-bit Runtime Environment for Solaris(R), Java(TM) 2 Standard Edition, Version 6.0\par
IBM(R) 32-bit Runtime Environment for Windows(R), Java(TM) 2 Standard Edition, Version 6.0\par
IBM(R) 64-bit Runtime Environment for Windows(R), Java(TM) 2 Standard Edition, Version 6.0\par
\par
\par
The notices and information files for the above listed JRE platforms can be found in the following directories:\par
\par
AIX Platforms:\par
/eclipse/jre_/jre/notices.txt\par
\par
HP-UX Platforms:\par
/eclipse/jre_/Notices.html\par
\par
Linux and Solaris Platforms:\par
/eclipse/jre_/notices.txt\par
\par
Windows Platforms:\par
\\eclipse\\jre_\\notices.txt\par
\par
Mac OSX Platforms:\par
\\eclipse\\jre_\\jre\\Contents\\Home\\THIRDPARTYLICENSEREADME. txt\par
\par
END OF JRE NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
==========================================\par
\par
MODIFIABLE THIRD PARTY CODE\par
\par
This Program includes some or all of the following Modifiable Third Party Code that IBM obtained under the GNU Lesser General Public License. For copies of the source code for this software, send an email to ies@ca.ibm.com identifying the IBM Program and the Modifiable Third Party Code for which you are requesting the source code.\par
\par
1. GNOME Binding\par
2. GTK+ Binding\par
3. GTK + Binding for Mozilla\par
\par
GNU Lesser General Public License\par
Version 2.1, February 1999\par
Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.\par
[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL. It also counts as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence the version number 2.1.]\par
Preamble\par
The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.\par
This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.\par
When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do these things.\par
To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights. These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.\par
For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link other code with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.\par
We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.\par
To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know that what they have is not the original version, so that the original author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be introduced by others.\par
Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any free program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license from a patent holder. Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.\par
Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different from the ordinary General Public License. We use this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.\par
When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined work, a derivative of the original library. The ordinary General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its criteria of freedom. The Lesser General Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with the library.\par
We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License. It also provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over competing non-free programs. These disadvantages are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many libraries. However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain special circumstances.\par
For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto standard. To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to use the library. A more frequent case is that a free library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries. In this case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.\par
In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software. For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating system.\par
Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program using a modified version of the Library.\par
The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in order to run.\par
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION\par
0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".\par
A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.\par
The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)\par
"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the library.\par
Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.\par
1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the Library.\par
You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.\par
2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:\par
a) The modified work must itself be a software library.\par
b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.\par
c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.\par
d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of its purpose remains meaningful.\par
(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by this function must be optional: if the a pplication does not supply it, the square root function must still compute square roots.)\par
These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.\par
Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the Library.\par
In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this License.\par
3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make any other change in these notices.\par
Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.\par
This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library into a program that is not a library.\par
4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.\par
If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.\par
5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this License.\par
However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.\par
When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.\par
If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)\par
Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.\par
6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.\par
You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License. Also, you must do one of these things:\par
a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application to use the modified definitions.)\par
b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library. A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.\par
c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.\par
d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials from the same place.\par
e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.\par
For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from it. However, as a special exception, the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the executable.\par
It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system. Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in an executable that you distribute.\par
7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two things:\par
a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be distributed under the terms of the Sections above.\par
b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.\par
8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.\par
9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the Library or works based on it.\par
10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.\par
11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all. For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty- free redistribution of the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.\par
If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.\par
It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that choice.\par
This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a consequence of the rest of this License.\par
12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this License.\par
13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.\par
Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.\par
14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.\par
NO WARRANTY\par
15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.\par
16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\par
END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries\par
If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public License).\par
To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found. \par
Copyright (C) \par
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.\par
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.\par
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA \par
Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.\par
You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is a sample; alter the names:\par
Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.\par
signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990\par
Ty Coon, President of Vice\par
END OF LGPL NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
===================================== \par
\par
BSD License\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the BSD License:\par
JLine v1.0\par
Copyright (c) 2002-2006, Marc Prud'hommeaux \par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
ASM v3.2\par
Copyright (c) 2000-2011 INRIA, France Telecom\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
1.\tab Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2.\tab Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
3.\tab Neither the name of JLine nor ASM nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES, LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS, OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF BSD NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
==========================================\par
\par
ANTLR 2 License\par
\par
We reserve no legal rights to the ANTLR--it is fully in the public domain. An individual or company may do whatever they wish with source code distributed with ANTLR or the code generated by ANTLR, including the incorporation of ANTLR, or its output, into commercial software.\par
\par
We encourage users to develop software with ANTLR. However, we do ask that credit is given to us for developing ANTLR. By "credit", we mean that if you use ANTLR or incorporate any source code into one of your programs (commercial product, research project, or otherwise) that you acknowledge this fact somewhere in the documentation, research report, etc... If you like ANTLR and have developed a nice tool with the output, please mention that you developed it using ANTLR. \par
In addition, we ask that the headers remain intact in our source code. As long as these guidelines are kept, we expect to continue enhancing this system and expect to make other tools available as they are completed.\par
\par
END OF ANTLR2 NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
==========================================\par
L/N: L-SVFE-9K9PEF\par
D/N: L-SVFE-9K9PEF\par
P/N: L-SVFE-9K9PEF \par
?-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
END Capilano Components (IBM Installation Manager & IBM Packaging Utility) 1.7.3  NOTICES\par
=============================================================================================\par
\par
===============================================================================================\par
BEGIN Dojo shrinksafe Notices File\par
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\'ef\'bf\'bdThe Mozilla Public License Version 1.1 covers the optional Shrinksafe build tool, and Mozilla Rhino 1.7r2 which is redistributed with that tool.  Shrinksafe contains modified files from Mozilla Rhino covered under Mozilla Public License Version 1.1.  The source code for these modifications has been made available at the public Dojo svn repository at http://www.dojotoolkit.org.\'c5\rquote   \par
\par
The Shrinksafe tool requires use of Mozilla Rhino 1.6r7 or higher in order to run.  We are relying on the separate DD Checklist already approved for the Rhino 1.7R2 jar. The version of Rhino that will be redistributed with the Shrinksafe package by default is the approved version of Mozilla Rhino 1.7r2.\par
\par
\par
MOZILLA PUBLIC LICENSE\par
                                Version 1.1\par
\par
                              ---------------\par
\par
1. Definitions.\par
\par
     1.0.1. "Commercial Use" means distribution or otherwise making the\par
     Covered Code available to a third party.\par
\par
     1.1. "Contributor" means each entity that creates or contributes to\par
     the creation of Modifications.\par
\par
     1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Original\par
     Code, prior Modifications used by a Contributor, and the Modifications\par
     made by that particular Contributor.\par
\par
     1.3. "Covered Code" means the Original Code or Modifications or the\par
     combination of the Original Code and Modifications, in each case\par
     including portions thereof.\par
\par
     1.4. "Electronic Distribution Mechanism" means a mechanism generally\par
     accepted in the software development community for the electronic\par
     transfer of data.\par
\par
     1.5. "Executable" means Covered Code in any form other than Source\par
     Code.\par
\par
     1.6. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity identified\par
     as the Initial Developer in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit\par
     A.\par
\par
     1.7. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Code or\par
     portions thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.\par
\par
     1.8. "License" means this document.\par
\par
     1.8.1. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum\par
     extent possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or\par
     subsequently acquired, any and all of the rights conveyed herein.\par
\par
     1.9. "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from the\par
     substance or structure of either the Original Code or any previous\par
     Modifications. When Covered Code is released as a series of files, a\par
     Modification is:\par
          A. Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file\par
          containing Original Code or previous Modifications.\par
\par
          B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or\par
          previous Modifications.\par
\par
     1.10. "Original Code" means Source Code of computer software code\par
     which is described in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit A as\par
     Original Code, and which, at the time of its release under this\par
     License is not already Covered Code governed by this License.\par
\par
     1.10.1. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or\par
     hereafter acquired, including without limitation,  method, process,\par
     and apparatus claims, in any patent Licensable by grantor.\par
\par
     1.11. "Source Code" means the preferred form of the Covered Code for\par
     making modifications to it, including all modules it contains, plus\par
     any associated interface definition files, scripts used to control\par
     compilation and installation of an Executable, or source code\par
     differential comparisons against either the Original Code or another\par
     well known, available Covered Code of the Contributor's choice. The\par
     Source Code can be in a compressed or archival form, provided the\par
     appropriate decompression or de-archiving software is widely available\par
     for no charge.\par
\par
     1.12. "You" (or "Your")  means an individual or a legal entity\par
     exercising rights under, and complying with all of the terms of, this\par
     License or a future version of this License issued under Section 6.1.\par
     For legal entities, "You" includes any entity which controls, is\par
     controlled by, or is under common control with You. For purposes of\par
     this definition, "control" means (a) the power, direct or indirect,\par
     to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by\par
     contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent\par
     (50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such\par
     entity.\par
\par
2. Source Code License.\par
\par
     2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.\par
     The Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,\par
     non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual property\par
     claims:\par
          (a)  under intellectual property rights (other than patent or\par
          trademark) Licensable by Initial Developer to use, reproduce,\par
          modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Original\par
          Code (or portions thereof) with or without Modifications, and/or\par
          as part of a Larger Work; and\par
\par
          (b) under Patents Claims infringed by the making, using or\par
          selling of Original Code, to make, have made, use, practice,\par
          sell, and offer for sale, and/or otherwise dispose of the\par
          Original Code (or portions thereof).\par
\par
          (c) the licenses granted in this Section 2.1(a) and (b) are\par
          effective on the date Initial Developer first distributes\par
          Original Code under the terms of this License.\par
\par
          (d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is\par
          granted: 1) for code that You delete from the Original Code; 2)\par
          separate from the Original Code;  or 3) for infringements caused\par
          by: i) the modification of the Original Code or ii) the\par
          combination of the Original Code with other software or devices.\par
\par
     2.2. Contributor Grant.\par
     Subject to third party intellectual property claims, each Contributor\par
     hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license\par
\par
          (a)  under intellectual property rights (other than patent or\par
          trademark) Licensable by Contributor, to use, reproduce, modify,\par
          display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Modifications\par
          created by such Contributor (or portions thereof) either on an\par
          unmodified basis, with other Modifications, as Covered Code\par
          and/or as part of a Larger Work; and\par
\par
          (b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or\par
          selling of  Modifications made by that Contributor either alone\par
          and/or in combination with its Contributor Version (or portions\par
          of such combination), to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have\par
          made, and/or otherwise dispose of: 1) Modifications made by that\par
          Contributor (or portions thereof); and 2) the combination of\par
          Modifications made by that Contributor with its Contributor\par
          Version (or portions of such combination).\par
\par
          (c) the licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are\par
          effective on the date Contributor first makes Commercial Use of\par
          the Covered Code.\par
\par
          (d)    Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is\par
          granted: 1) for any code that Contributor has deleted from the\par
          Contributor Version; 2)  separate from the Contributor Version;\par
          3)  for infringements caused by: i) third party modifications of\par
          Contributor Version or ii)  the combination of Modifications made\par
          by that Contributor with other software  (except as part of the\par
          Contributor Version) or other devices; or 4) under Patent Claims\par
          infringed by Covered Code in the absence of Modifications made by\par
          that Contributor.\par
\par
3. Distribution Obligations.\par
\par
     3.1. Application of License.\par
     The Modifications which You create or to which You contribute are\par
     governed by the terms of this License, including without limitation\par
     Section 2.2. The Source Code version of Covered Code may be\par
     distributed only under the terms of this License or a future version\par
     of this License released under Section 6.1, and You must include a\par
     copy of this License with every copy of the Source Code You\par
     distribute. You may not offer or impose any terms on any Source Code\par
     version that alters or restricts the applicable version of this\par
     License or the recipients' rights hereunder. However, You may include\par
     an additional document offering the additional rights described in\par
     Section 3.5.\par
\par
     3.2. Availability of Source Code.\par
     Any Modification which You create or to which You contribute must be\par
     made available in Source Code form under the terms of this License\par
     either on the same media as an Executable version or via an accepted\par
     Electronic Distribution Mechanism to anyone to whom you made an\par
     Executable version available; and if made available via Electronic\par
     Distribution Mechanism, must remain available for at least twelve (12)\par
     months after the date it initially became available, or at least six\par
     (6) months after a subsequent version of that particular Modification\par
     has been made available to such recipients. You are responsible for\par
     ensuring that the Source Code version remains available even if the\par
     Electronic Distribution Mechanism is maintained by a third party.\par
\par
     3.3. Description of Modifications.\par
     You must cause all Covered Code to which You contribute to contain a\par
     file documenting the changes You made to create that Covered Code and\par
     the date of any change. You must include a prominent statement that\par
     the Modification is derived, directly or indirectly, from Original\par
     Code provided by the Initial Developer and including the name of the\par
     Initial Developer in (a) the Source Code, and (b) in any notice in an\par
     Executable version or related documentation in which You describe the\par
     origin or ownership of the Covered Code.\par
\par
     3.4. Intellectual Property Matters\par
          (a) Third Party Claims.\par
          If Contributor has knowledge that a license under a third party's\par
          intellectual property rights is required to exercise the rights\par
          granted by such Contributor under Sections 2.1 or 2.2,\par
          Contributor must include a text file with the Source Code\par
          distribution titled "LEGAL" which describes the claim and the\par
          party making the claim in sufficient detail that a recipient will\par
          know whom to contact. If Contributor obtains such knowledge after\par
          the Modification is made available as described in Section 3.2,\par
          Contributor shall promptly modify the LEGAL file in all copies\par
          Contributor makes available thereafter and shall take other steps\par
          (such as notifying appropriate mailing lists or newsgroups)\par
          reasonably calculated to inform those who received the Covered\par
          Code that new knowledge has been obtained.\par
\par
          (b) Contributor APIs.\par
          If Contributor's Modifications include an application programming\par
          interface and Contributor has knowledge of patent licenses which\par
          are reasonably necessary to implement that API, Contributor must\par
          also include this information in the LEGAL file.\par
\par
               (c)    Representations.\par
          Contributor represents that, except as disclosed pursuant to\par
          Section 3.4(a) above, Contributor believes that Contributor's\par
          Modifications are Contributor's original creation(s) and/or\par
          Contributor has sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by\par
          this License.\par
\par
     3.5. Required Notices.\par
     You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file of the Source\par
     Code.  If it is not possible to put such notice in a particular Source\par
     Code file due to its structure, then You must include such notice in a\par
     location (such as a relevant directory) where a user would be likely\par
     to look for such a notice.  If You created one or more Modification(s)\par
     You may add your name as a Contributor to the notice described in\par
     Exhibit A.  You must also duplicate this License in any documentation\par
     for the Source Code where You describe recipients' rights or ownership\par
     rights relating to Covered Code.  You may choose to offer, and to\par
     charge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or liability\par
     obligations to one or more recipients of Covered Code. However, You\par
     may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial\par
     Developer or any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear than\par
     any such warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligation is\par
     offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial\par
     Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by the\par
     Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of warranty,\par
     support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.\par
\par
     3.6. Distribution of Executable Versions.\par
     You may distribute Covered Code in Executable form only if the\par
     requirements of Section 3.1-3.5 have been met for that Covered Code,\par
     and if You include a notice stating that the Source Code version of\par
     the Covered Code is available under the terms of this License,\par
     including a description of how and where You have fulfilled the\par
     obligations of Section 3.2. The notice must be conspicuously included\par
     in any notice in an Executable version, related documentation or\par
     collateral in which You describe recipients' rights relating to the\par
     Covered Code. You may distribute the Executable version of Covered\par
     Code or ownership rights under a license of Your choice, which may\par
     contain terms different from this License, provided that You are in\par
     compliance with the terms of this License and that the license for the\par
     Executable version does not attempt to limit or alter the recipient's\par
     rights in the Source Code version from the rights set forth in this\par
     License. If You distribute the Executable version under a different\par
     license You must make it absolutely clear that any terms which differ\par
     from this License are offered by You alone, not by the Initial\par
     Developer or any Contributor. You hereby agree to indemnify the\par
     Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by\par
     the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of any such\par
     terms You offer.\par
\par
     3.7. Larger Works.\par
     You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with other code\par
     not governed by the terms of this License and distribute the Larger\par
     Work as a single product. In such a case, You must make sure the\par
     requirements of this License are fulfilled for the Covered Code.\par
\par
4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation.\par
\par
     If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this\par
     License with respect to some or all of the Covered Code due to\par
     statute, judicial order, or regulation then You must: (a) comply with\par
     the terms of this License to the maximum extent possible; and (b)\par
     describe the limitations and the code they affect. Such description\par
     must be included in the LEGAL file described in Section 3.4 and must\par
     be included with all distributions of the Source Code. Except to the\par
     extent prohibited by statute or regulation, such description must be\par
     sufficiently detailed for a recipient of ordinary skill to be able to\par
     understand it.\par
\par
5. Application of this License.\par
\par
     This License applies to code to which the Initial Developer has\par
     attached the notice in Exhibit A and to related Covered Code.\par
\par
6. Versions of the License.\par
\par
     6.1. New Versions.\par
     Netscape Communications Corporation ("Netscape") may publish revised\par
     and/or new versions of the License from time to time. Each version\par
     will be given a distinguishing version number.\par
\par
     6.2. Effect of New Versions.\par
     Once Covered Code has been published under a particular version of the\par
     License, You may always continue to use it under the terms of that\par
     version. You may also choose to use such Covered Code under the terms\par
     of any subsequent version of the License published by Netscape. No one\par
     other than Netscape has the right to modify the terms applicable to\par
     Covered Code created under this License.\par
\par
     6.3. Derivative Works.\par
     If You create or use a modified version of this License (which you may\par
     only do in order to apply it to code which is not already Covered Code\par
     governed by this License), You must (a) rename Your license so that\par
     the phrases "Mozilla", "MOZILLAPL", "MOZPL", "Netscape",\par
     "MPL", "NPL" or any confusingly similar phrase do not appear in your\par
     license (except to note that your license differs from this License)\par
     and (b) otherwise make it clear that Your version of the license\par
     contains terms which differ from the Mozilla Public License and\par
     Netscape Public License. (Filling in the name of the Initial\par
     Developer, Original Code or Contributor in the notice described in\par
     Exhibit A shall not of themselves be deemed to be modifications of\par
     this License.)\par
\par
7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.\par
\par
     COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS,\par
     WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,\par
     WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED CODE IS FREE OF\par
     DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING.\par
     THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED CODE\par
     IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED CODE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT,\par
     YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE\par
     COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER\par
     OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF\par
     ANY COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.\par
\par
8. TERMINATION.\par
\par
     8.1.  This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate\par
     automatically if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to cure\par
     such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All\par
     sublicenses to the Covered Code which are properly granted shall\par
     survive any termination of this License. Provisions which, by their\par
     nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this License\par
     shall survive.\par
\par
     8.2.  If You initiate litigation by asserting a patent infringement\par
     claim (excluding declatory judgment actions) against Initial Developer\par
     or a Contributor (the Initial Developer or Contributor against whom\par
     You file such action is referred to as "Participant")  alleging that:\par
\par
     (a)  such Participant's Contributor Version directly or indirectly\par
     infringes any patent, then any and all rights granted by such\par
     Participant to You under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this License\par
     shall, upon 60 days notice from Participant terminate prospectively,\par
     unless if within 60 days after receipt of notice You either: (i)\par
     agree in writing to pay Participant a mutually agreeable reasonable\par
     royalty for Your past and future use of Modifications made by such\par
     Participant, or (ii) withdraw Your litigation claim with respect to\par
     the Contributor Version against such Participant.  If within 60 days\par
     of notice, a reasonable royalty and payment arrangement are not\par
     mutually agreed upon in writing by the parties or the litigation claim\par
     is not withdrawn, the rights granted by Participant to You under\par
     Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 automatically terminate at the expiration of\par
     the 60 day notice period specified above.\par
\par
     (b)  any software, hardware, or device, other than such Participant's\par
     Contributor Version, directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then\par
     any rights granted to You by such Participant under Sections 2.1(b)\par
     and 2.2(b) are revoked effective as of the date You first made, used,\par
     sold, distributed, or had made, Modifications made by that\par
     Participant.\par
\par
     8.3.  If You assert a patent infringement claim against Participant\par
     alleging that such Participant's Contributor Version directly or\par
     indirectly infringes any patent where such claim is resolved (such as\par
     by license or settlement) prior to the initiation of patent\par
     infringement litigation, then the reasonable value of the licenses\par
     granted by such Participant under Sections 2.1 or 2.2 shall be taken\par
     into account in determining the amount or value of any payment or\par
     license.\par
\par
     8.4.  In the event of termination under Sections 8.1 or 8.2 above,\par
     all end user license agreements (excluding distributors and resellers)\par
     which have been validly granted by You or any distributor hereunder\par
     prior to termination shall survive termination.\par
\par
9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.\par
\par
     UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT\par
     (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE INITIAL\par
     DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED CODE,\par
     OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR\par
     ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY\par
     CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL,\par
     WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER\par
     COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN\par
     INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF\par
     LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY\par
     RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW\par
     PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE\par
     EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO\par
     THIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.\par
\par
10. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.\par
\par
     The Covered Code is a "commercial item," as that term is defined in\par
     48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial computer\par
     software" and "commercial computer software documentation," as such\par
     terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48\par
     C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995),\par
     all U.S. Government End Users acquire Covered Code with only those\par
     rights set forth herein.\par
\par
11. MISCELLANEOUS.\par
\par
     This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject\par
     matter hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be\par
     unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent\par
     necessary to make it enforceable. This License shall be governed by\par
     California law provisions (except to the extent applicable law, if\par
     any, provides otherwise), excluding its conflict-of-law provisions.\par
     With respect to disputes in which at least one party is a citizen of,\par
     or an entity chartered or registered to do business in the United\par
     States of America, any litigation relating to this License shall be\par
     subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Courts of the Northern\par
     District of California, with venue lying in Santa Clara County,\par
     California, with the losing party responsible for costs, including\par
     without limitation, court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and\par
     expenses. The application of the United Nations Convention on\par
     Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded.\par
     Any law or regulation which provides that the language of a contract\par
     shall be construed against the drafter shall not apply to this\par
     License.\par
\par
12. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.\par
\par
     As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is\par
     responsible for claims and damages arising, directly or indirectly,\par
     out of its utilization of rights under this License and You agree to\par
     work with Initial Developer and Contributors to distribute such\par
     responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing herein is intended or\par
     shall be deemed to constitute any admission of liability.\par
\par
13. MULTIPLE-LICENSED CODE.\par
\par
     Initial Developer may designate portions of the Covered Code as\par
     "Multiple-Licensed".  "Multiple-Licensed" means that the Initial\par
     Developer permits you to utilize portions of the Covered Code under\par
     Your choice of the NPL or the alternative licenses, if any, specified\par
     by the Initial Developer in the file described in Exhibit A.\par
\par
EXHIBIT A -Mozilla Public License.\par
\par
     ``The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License\par
     Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in\par
     compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at\par
     http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/\par
\par
     Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"\par
     basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the\par
     License for the specific language governing rights and limitations\par
     under the License.\par
\par
     The Original Code is ______________________________________.\par
\par
     The Initial Developer of the Original Code is ________________________.\par
     Portions created by ______________________ are Copyright (C) ______\par
     _______________________. All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
     Contributor(s): ______________________________________.\par
\par
     Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms\par
     of the _____ license (the  "[___] License"), in which case the\par
     provisions of [______] License are applicable instead of those\par
     above.  If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only\par
     under the terms of the [____] License and not to allow others to use\par
     your version of this file under the MPL, indicate your decision by\par
     deleting  the provisions above and replace  them with the notice and\par
     other provisions required by the [___] License.  If you do not delete\par
     the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file\par
     under either the MPL or the [___] License."\par
\par
     [NOTE: The text of this Exhibit A may differ slightly from the text of\par
     the notices in the Source Code files of the Original Code. You should\par
     use the text of this Exhibit A rather than the text found in the\par
     Original Code Source Code for Your Modifications.]\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
END Dojo Shrinksafe Notices File\par
=======================================================================================\par
\par
===========================================================================================\par
Notice file for Netty 3.9.0\par
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
                            The Netty Project\par
                            =================\par
\par
Please visit the Netty web site for more information:\par
\par
  * http://netty.io/\par
\par
Copyright 2011 The Netty Project\par
\par
The Netty Project licenses this file to you under the Apache License,\par
version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance\par
with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at:\par
\par
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0\par
\par
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software\par
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT\par
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the\par
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations\par
under the License.\par
\par
Also, please refer to each LICENSE.<component>.txt file, which is located in\par
the 'license' directory of the distribution file, for the license terms of the\par
components that this product depends on.\par
\par
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
This product contains the extensions to Java Collections Framework which has\par
been derived from the works by JSR-166 EG, Doug Lea, and Jason T. Greene:\par
\par
  * LICENSE:\par
    * license/LICENSE.jsr166y.txt (Public Domain)\par
  * HOMEPAGE:\par
    * http://gee.cs.oswego.edu/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/jsr166/\par
    * http://viewvc.jboss.org/cgi-bin/viewvc.cgi/jbosscache/experimental/jsr166/\par
\par
This product contains a modified version of Robert Harder's Public Domain\par
Base64 Encoder and Decoder, which can be obtained at:\par
\par
  * LICENSE:\par
    * license/LICENSE.base64.txt (Public Domain)\par
  * HOMEPAGE:\par
    * http://iharder.sourceforge.net/current/java/base64/\par
\par
This product contains a modified version of 'JZlib', a re-implementation of\par
zlib in pure Java, which can be obtained at:\par
\par
  * LICENSE:\par
    * license/LICENSE.jzlib.txt (BSD Style License)\par
  * HOMEPAGE:\par
    * http://www.jcraft.com/jzlib/\par
\par
This product optionally depends on 'Protocol Buffers', Google's data\par
interchange format, which can be obtained at:\par
\par
  * LICENSE:\par
    * license/LICENSE.protobuf.txt (New BSD License)\par
  * HOMEPAGE:\par
    * http://code.google.com/p/protobuf/\par
\par
This product optionally depends on 'SLF4J', a simple logging facade for Java,\par
which can be obtained at:\par
\par
  * LICENSE:\par
    * license/LICENSE.slf4j.txt (MIT License)\par
  * HOMEPAGE:\par
    * http://www.slf4j.org/\par
\par
This product optionally depends on 'Apache Commons Logging', a logging\par
framework, which can be obtained at:\par
\par
  * LICENSE:\par
    * license/LICENSE.commons-logging.txt (Apache License 2.0)\par
  * HOMEPAGE:\par
    * http://commons.apache.org/logging/\par
\par
This product optionally depends on 'Apache Log4J', a logging framework,\par
which can be obtained at:\par
\par
  * LICENSE:\par
    * license/LICENSE.log4j.txt (Apache License 2.0)\par
  * HOMEPAGE:\par
    * http://logging.apache.org/log4j/\par
\par
This product optionally depends on 'JBoss Logging', a logging framework,\par
which can be obtained at:\par
\par
  * LICENSE:\par
    * license/LICENSE.jboss-logging.txt (GNU LGPL 2.1)\par
  * HOMEPAGE:\par
    * http://anonsvn.jboss.org/repos/common/common-logging-spi/\par
\par
This product optionally depends on 'Apache Felix', an open source OSGi\par
framework implementation, which can be obtained at:\par
\par
  * LICENSE:\par
    * license/LICENSE.felix.txt (Apache License 2.0)\par
  * HOMEPAGE:\par
    * http://felix.apache.org/\par
    \par
This product optionally depends on 'Webbit', a Java event based  \par
WebSocket and HTTP server:\par
\par
  * LICENSE:\par
    * license/LICENSE.webbit.txt (BSD License)\par
  * HOMEPAGE:\par
    * https://github.com/joewalnes/webbit\par
     \par
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
End of Netty 3.9.0 Notice file\par
====================================================================================================\par
\par
NOTICES AND INFORMATION WAS ND V8.5.5 \par
\par
Technical Preview Code \par
\par
The program contains JSR 236 Concurrency Utilities for Java EE which is technical preview code.\par
-----------------------\par
\par
Apache License 2.0\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Apache License Version 2.0:\par
Abdera \par
Annogen \par
Apache Ant \par
Apache Aries \par
Apache Avalon\par
Apache Axiom \par
Apache Axis \par
Apache Axis2 \par
Apache Batik \par
Apache Bean Validation \par
Apache Commons Beanutil \par
Apache Commons IO \par
Apache Commons Lang \par
Apache Commons Logging \par
Apache Commons Pool \par
Apache Commons EL \par
Apache Commons Codec \par
Apache Commons Collection \par
Apache Commons Discovery  \par
Apache Commons Digester\par
Apache Commons Fileupload \par
Apache Commons-Net \par
Apache Commons JXPath \par
Apache Derby \par
Apache Felix \par
Apache HTTP Client \par
Apache Http Core \par
Apache HTTP Server \par
Apache Jakarta Commons Codec \par
Apache Jakarta httpcore\par
Apache Jakarta Commons HttpMime\par
Apache Jakarta Commons Logging\par
Apache Geronimo Specs \par
Apache Geronimo Specs Annotations \par
Apache Geronimo Specs EJB \par
Apache Geronimo Specs Interceptor \par
Apache Geronimo Specs J2EE Connector  \par
Apache Geronimo Specs JACC \par
Apache Geronimo Specs JASPIC \par
Apache Geronimo Specs JMS \par
Apache Geronimo Specs JPA \par
Apache Geronimo Specs JTA \par
Apache Geronimo Specs Servlet APIs \par
Apache Geronimo Specs Validation \par
Apache Lucene \par
Apache Mime4J\par
Apache Muse \par
Apache MyFaces\par
Apache Neethi \par
Apache OpenJPA \par
Apache Oro \par
Apache Portable Runtime \par
Apache Sandesha2 \par
Apache SOAP \par
Apache Transport \par
Apache Tomcat (subset) \par
Apache Tools Ant \par
Apache Tuscany \par
Apache Struts \par
Apache Wink \par
Apache Woden \par
Apache Xalan-J \par
Apache XML Schema \par
Backport-util-concurrent \par
CGLib1\par
Google Closure Compiler\par
Guava\par
Jackson \par
Jaxen \par
JSTL \par
Log4J \par
OpenAjax.js\par
Open Web Beans \par
OSGi Materials \par
SVGWeb\par
Xerces \par
XML-APIs \par
XML Beans \par
XML Resolver \par
XML4J \par
\par
Apache License\par
Version 2.0, January 2004\par
http://www.apache.org/licenses/\par
\par
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION\par
\par
1. Definitions.\par
\par
"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,\par
and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.\par
\par
"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the \par
copyright owner that is granting the License.\par
\par
"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other \par
entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control \par
with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means \par
(i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or \par
management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) \par
ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or \par
(iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.\par
\par
"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising \par
permissions granted by this License.\par
\par
"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, \par
including but not limited to software source code, documentation \par
source, and configuration files.\par
\par
"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical \par
transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not \par
limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and \par
conversions to other media types.\par
\par
"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object \par
form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright \par
notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is \par
provided in the Appendix below).\par
\par
"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object \par
form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the \par
editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications \par
represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the \par
purposes of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works \par
that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the \par
interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.\par
\par
"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the \par
original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to \par
that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted \par
to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an \par
individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the \par
copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted" \par
means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to \par
the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to \par
communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control \par
systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf \par
of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, \par
but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise \par
designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."\par
\par
"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity \par
on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and \par
subsequently incorporated within the Work.\par
\par
2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of \par
this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, \par
worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable \par
copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly \par
display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and \par
such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.\par
\par
3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of \par
this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, \par
worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except \par
as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, \par
offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where \par
such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such \par
Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) \par
alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to \par
which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent \par
litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim \par
in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated \par
within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent \par
infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this \par
License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation \par
is filed.\par
\par
4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work \par
or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without \par
modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet \par
the following conditions:\par
\par
 (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative \par
 Works a copy of this License; and\par
\par
 (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices \par
 stating that You changed the files; and\par
\par
 (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works \par
 that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and \par
 attribution notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding \par
 those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative \par
 Works; and\par
\par
 (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its \par
 distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must \par
 include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained \par
 within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not \par
 pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of \par
 the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as \par
 part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or \par
 documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or, \par
 within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and \par
 wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents \par
 of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not \par
 modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices \par
 within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an \par
 addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such \par
 additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying \par
 the License.\par
\par
You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may \par
provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, \par
reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such \par
Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and \par
distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated \par
in this License.\par
\par
5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, \par
any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by \par
You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this \par
License, without any additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding \par
the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any \par
separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor \par
regarding such Contributions.\par
\par
6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade \par
names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, \par
except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the \par
origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.\par
\par
7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed \par
to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor \par
provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR \par
CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without \par
limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, \par
MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely \par
responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or \par
redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your \par
exercise of permissions under this License.\par
\par
8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, \par
whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless \par
required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent \par
acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You \par
for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or \par
consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this \par
License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but \par
not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer \par
failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or \par
losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility \par
of such damages.\par
\par
9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing \par
the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and \par
charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other \par
liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. \par
However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own \par
behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other \par
Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each \par
Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted \par
against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such \par
warranty or additional liability.\par
\par
END OF APACHE NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
\par
*******************************************************************************\par
Dojo:  The Program contains Dojo Toolkit which\par
IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the \par
BSD License.\par
\par
Dojo Toolkit\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2005, The Dojo Foundation\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this\par
     list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,\par
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation\par
    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
  * Neither the name of the Dojo Foundation nor the names of its contributors\par
    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software\par
    without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS \par
AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A \par
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL \par
THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR \par
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR \par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, \par
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF \par
USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER \par
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, \par
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) \par
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN \par
IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF DOJO TOOLKIT NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==============================================\par
\par
ECLIPSE CODE \par
\par
EPL. The Program includes all or portions of the following \par
software which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions \par
the Eclipse Public License ("EPL Code") .\par
\par
The following subset of Excluded Components was obtained from the Eclipse Foundation: \par
Cairo Binding, Cairo Library, Independent JPEG Group's LIBJPEG Release 6b (derivative - subset), \par
Mozilla Binding, OSGi Materials, pixman, XHTML DTDs, MXJ4,  \par
Aspect J Runtime 1.5.0,  IBM Eclipse SDK 3.2.1, 3.6.2, IBM Eclipse Help System 3.1.0, 3.4.3 components,  \par
Higgens Token Server,  TPTP , EMF, Eclipse Equinox (OSGi Services) 3.6 M6  \par
\par
(herein collectively referred to as "Eclipse Code"). Notices and important information, including instructions for obtaining source code, for the Eclipse Code may be found in associated "about.html" files ("About Files") that accompany the Eclipse Code. These About Files are provided for informational purposes only, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary therein, your use of such Eclipse Code shall be governed by the terms of the IBM end user license agreement.\par
END OF ECLIPSE CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=============================================  \par
ECLIPSE PLATFORM DERIVATIVE CLASSES\par
\par
IBM has made certain modifications to Eclipse code, which modifications are referred to as the "Eclipse Platform 3.3 derivative classes".  These modifications have been contributed to the Eclipse Foundation and can be downloaded from www.eclipse.org. Look for the following bug:\par
  https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=187614\par
\par
Source code for the unmodified version of these files can be found at .www.eclipse.org\par
\par
END OF ECLIPSE PLATFORM DERIVATIVE CLASSES NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
=============================================  \par
\par
Expat 1.95.2.  The Program includes Expat which IBM obtained under the \par
terms and conditions of the following license.\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1998, 1999, 2000 Thai Open Source Software Center Ltd\par
 and Clark Cooper\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining\par
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the\par
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including\par
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,\par
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to\par
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to\par
the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included\par
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY \par
OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT \par
LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS \par
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.IN \par
NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE \par
LIABLE OR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, \par
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,\par
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE \par
OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
END OF EXPAT CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=================================================\par
\par
FASTCGI 2.4.0:  The Program is accompanied by FASTCGI software.   IBM                 \par
obtained the FASTCGI software under the terms and conditions of the             \par
following license:                                                              \par
                                                                                \par
FastCGI License                                                           \par
This FastCGI application library source and object code (the                    \par
"Software") and its documentation (the "Documentation") are                     \par
copyrighted by Open Market, Inc ("Open Market").  The following terms           \par
apply to all files associated with the Software and Documentation               \par
unless explicitly disclaimed in individual files.                               \par
                                                                                \par
Open Market permits you to use, copy, modify, distribute, and license           \par
this Software and the Documentation solely for the purpose of                   \par
implementing the FastCGI specification defined by Open Market or                \par
derivative specifications publicly endorsed by Open Market and                  \par
promulgated by an open standards organization and for no other                  \par
purpose, provided that existing copyright notices are retained in all           \par
copies and that this notice is included verbatim in any distributions.          \par
                                                                                \par
No written agreement, license, or royalty fee is required for any of            \par
the authorized uses.  Modifications to this Software and Documentation          \par
may be copyrighted by their authors and need not follow the licensing           \par
terms described here, but the modified Software and Documentation must          \par
be used for the sole purpose of implementing the FastCGI specification          \par
defined by Open Market or derivative specifications publicly endorsed           \par
by Open Market and promulgated by an open standards organization and            \par
for no other purpose.  If modifications to this Software and                    \par
Documentation have new licensing terms, the new terms must protect              \par
Open Market's proprietary rights in the Software and Documentation to           \par
the same extent as these licensing terms and must be clearly indicated          \par
on the first page of each file where they apply.                                \par
                                                                                \par
Open Market shall retain all right, title and interest in and to the            \par
Software and Documentation, including without limitation all patent,            \par
copyright, trade secret and other proprietary rights.                           \par
                                                                                \par
OPEN MARKET MAKES NO EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY \par
WITH RESPECT TO THE  SOFTWARE OR THE DOCUMENTATION,\par
INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY             \par
WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS \par
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  IN          \par
NO EVENT SHALL OPEN MARKET BE LIABLE TO \par
YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR ANY        \par
DAMAGES ARISING FROM OR RELATING TO THIS S\par
OFTWARE OR THE                        \par
DOCUMENTATION, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, \par
ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR        \par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR SIMILAR DAMAGES, \par
INCLUDING LOST PROFITS OR             \par
LOST DATA, EVEN IF OPEN MARKET HAS BEEN \par
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF           \par
SUCH DAMAGES.  THE SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION \par
ARE PROVIDED "AS IS".             \par
OPEN MARKET HAS NO LIABILITY IN CONTRACT, \par
TORT, NEGLIGENCE OR                   \par
OTHERWISE ARISING OUT OF THIS SOFTWARE OR \par
THE DOCUMENTATION.                    \par
                                                                                \par
END OF FASTCGI NOTICES AND INFORMATION                                          \par
===========================================     \par
\par
International Components for Unicode (ICU) :  The program includes \par
ICU4J version and ICU4C.  IBM obtained \par
the ICU code under the following terms and conditions :  \par
\par
Copyright (c) 1995-2003 International Business Machines Corporation \par
and others All rights reserved. Permission is hereby granted, free of \par
charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated \par
documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without \par
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, \par
modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the \par
Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to \par
do so, provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission \par
notice appear in all copies of the Software and that both the above \par
copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in supporting \par
documentation. THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT \par
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING \par
BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
 FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT\par
 OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT \par
HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR \par
ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL \par
DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING \par
FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN \par
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS \par
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE \par
USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. \par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder \par
shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use \par
or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization \par
of the copyright holder.\par
----------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
All trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned herein are the \par
property of their respective owners\par
\par
END OF ICU NOTICES\par
=============================================\par
\par
JACL 1.3.2 \par
\par
The Program includes Jacl, consisting of the \par
<was_install_root>\\lib\\jacl.jar and \par
<was_install_root>\\lib\\tcljava.jar. IBM obtained this software code \par
under the terms and conditions reproduced below, and the Jacl software \par
is provided to you under these terms and conditions. \par
 \par
1) Sun Microsystems License \par
 \par
License Terms and Conditions \par
SUN MICROSYSTEMS, INC. THROUGH ITS SUN MICROSYSTEMS LABORATORIES \par
DIVISION ("SUN") WILL LICENSE THIS SOFTWARE AND THE ACCOMPANYING \par
DOCUMENTATION TO YOU (a "Licensee") ONLY ON YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF ALL THE \par
TERMS SET FORTH BELOW. \par
 \par
Sun grants Licensee a non-exclusive, royalty-free right to download, \par
install, compile, use, copy and distribute the Software, modify or \par
otherwise create derivative works from the Software (each, a \par
"Modification") and distribute any Modification in source code and/or \par
binary code form to its customers with a license agreement containing \par
these terms and noting that the Software has been modified. The \par
Software is copyrighted by Sun and other third parties and Licensee \par
shall retain and reproduce all copyright and other notices presently \par
on the Software. As between Sun and Licensee, Sun is the sole owner of \par
all rights in and to the Software other than the limited rights \par
granted to Licensee herein; Licensee will own its Modifications, \par
expressly subject to Sun's continuing ownership of the Software. \par
Licensee will, at its expense, defend and indemnify Sun and its \par
licensors from and against any third party claims, including costs and \par
reasonable attorneys' fees, and be wholly responsible for any \par
liabilities arising out of or related to Licensee's development, use \par
or distribution of the Software or Modifications. Any distribution of \par
the Software and Modifications must comply with all applicable United \par
States export control laws. \par
 \par
THE SOFTWARE IS BEING PROVIDED TO LICENSEE "AS IS" AND ALL EXPRESS OR \par
IMPLIED CONDITIONS AND WARRANTIES, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF \par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT, \par
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT WILL SUN BE LIABLE HEREUNDER FOR ANY \par
DIRECT DAMAGES OR ANY INDIRECT, PUNITIVE, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR \par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND. \par
 \par
 \par
********************************** \par
2) University of California License \par
 \par
Portions of Jacl and Tcl Blend are Copyright (c) 1997-1999 The Regents \par
of the University of California. \par
\par
All rights reserved. \par
 \par
Permission is hereby granted, without written agreement and without \par
license or royalty fees, to use, copy, modify, and distribute this \par
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that the \par
above copyright notice and the following two paragraphs appear in all \par
copies of this software. \par
 \par
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY \par
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES \par
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF \par
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF \par
SUCH DAMAGE. \par
 \par
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, \par
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF \par
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE \par
PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF \par
CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, \par
ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS. \par
 \par
END OF JACL TERMS AND CONDITIONS \par
======================================================================\par
\par
Javassist 3.13.  The Program includes Javassist which IBM obtained under \par
the terms and conditions of the following license.\par
\par
\par
 MOZILLA PUBLIC LICENSE\par
                                Version 1.1\par
\par
                           1. Definitions.\par
\par
     1.0.1. "Commercial Use" means distribution or otherwise making the\par
     Covered Code available to a third party.\par
\par
     1.1. "Contributor" means each entity that creates or contributes to\par
     the creation of Modifications.\par
\par
     1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Original\par
     Code, prior Modifications used by a Contributor, and the Modifications\par
     made by that particular Contributor.\par
\par
     1.3. "Covered Code" means the Original Code or Modifications or the\par
     combination of the Original Code and Modifications, in each case\par
     including portions thereof.\par
\par
     1.4. "Electronic Distribution Mechanism" means a mechanism generally\par
     accepted in the software development community for the electronic\par
     transfer of data.\par
\par
     1.5. "Executable" means Covered Code in any form other than Source\par
     Code.\par
\par
     1.6. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity identified\par
     as the Initial Developer in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit\par
     A.\par
\par
     1.7. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Code or\par
     portions thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.\par
\par
     1.8. "License" means this document.\par
\par
     1.8.1. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum\par
     extent possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or\par
     subsequently acquired, any and all of the rights conveyed herein.\par
\par
     1.9. "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from the\par
     substance or structure of either the Original Code or any previous\par
     Modifications. When Covered Code is released as a series of files, a\par
     Modification is:\par
          A. Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file\par
          containing Original Code or previous Modifications.\par
\par
          B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or\par
          previous Modifications.\par
\par
     1.10. "Original Code" means Source Code of computer software code\par
     which is described in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit A as\par
     Original Code, and which, at the time of its release under this\par
     License is not already Covered Code governed by this License.\par
\par
     1.10.1. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or\par
     hereafter acquired, including without limitation,  method, process,\par
     and apparatus claims, in any patent Licensable by grantor.\par
\par
     1.11. "Source Code" means the preferred form of the Covered Code for\par
     making modifications to it, including all modules it contains, plus\par
     any associated interface definition files, scripts used to control\par
     compilation and installation of an Executable, or source code\par
     differential comparisons against either the Original Code or another\par
     well known, available Covered Code of the Contributor's choice. The\par
     Source Code can be in a compressed or archival form, provided the\par
     appropriate decompression or de-archiving software is widely available\par
     for no charge.\par
\par
     1.12. "You" (or "Your")  means an individual or a legal entity\par
     exercising rights under, and complying with all of the terms of, this\par
     License or a future version of this License issued under Section 6.1.\par
     For legal entities, "You" includes any entity which controls, is\par
     controlled by, or is under common control with You. For purposes of\par
     this definition, "control" means (a) the power, direct or indirect,\par
     to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by\par
     contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent\par
     (50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such\par
     entity.\par
\par
2. Source Code License.\par
\par
     2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.\par
     The Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,\par
     non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual property\par
     claims:\par
          (a)  under intellectual property rights (other than patent or\par
          trademark) Licensable by Initial Developer to use, reproduce,\par
          modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Original\par
          Code (or portions thereof) with or without Modifications, and/or\par
          as part of a Larger Work; and\par
\par
          (b) under Patents Claims infringed by the making, using or\par
          selling of Original Code, to make, have made, use, practice,\par
          sell, and offer for sale, and/or otherwise dispose of the\par
          Original Code (or portions thereof).\par
\par
          (c) the licenses granted in this Section 2.1(a) and (b) are\par
          effective on the date Initial Developer first distributes\par
          Original Code under the terms of this License.\par
\par
          (d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is\par
          granted: 1) for code that You delete from the Original Code; 2)\par
          separate from the Original Code;  or 3) for infringements caused\par
          by: i) the modification of the Original Code or ii) the\par
          combination of the Original Code with other software or devices.\par
\par
     2.2. Contributor Grant.\par
     Subject to third party intellectual property claims, each Contributor\par
     hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license\par
\par
          (a)  under intellectual property rights (other than patent or\par
          trademark) Licensable by Contributor, to use, reproduce, modify,\par
          display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Modifications\par
          created by such Contributor (or portions thereof) either on an\par
          unmodified basis, with other Modifications, as Covered Code\par
          and/or as part of a Larger Work; and\par
\par
          (b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or\par
          selling of  Modifications made by that Contributor either alone\par
          and/or in combination with its Contributor Version (or portions\par
          of such combination), to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have\par
          made, and/or otherwise dispose of: 1) Modifications made by that\par
          Contributor (or portions thereof); and 2) the combination of\par
          Modifications made by that Contributor with its Contributor\par
          Version (or portions of such combination).\par
\par
          (c) the licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are\par
          effective on the date Contributor first makes Commercial Use of\par
          the Covered Code.\par
\par
          (d)    Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is\par
          granted: 1) for any code that Contributor has deleted from the\par
          Contributor Version; 2)  separate from the Contributor Version;\par
          3)  for infringements caused by: i) third party modifications of\par
          Contributor Version or ii)  the combination of Modifications made\par
          by that Contributor with other software  (except as part of the\par
          Contributor Version) or other devices; or 4) under Patent Claims\par
          infringed by Covered Code in the absence of Modifications made by\par
          that Contributor.\par
\par
3. Distribution Obligations.\par
\par
     3.1. Application of License.\par
     The Modifications which You create or to which You contribute are\par
     governed by the terms of this License, including without limitation\par
     Section 2.2. The Source Code version of Covered Code may be\par
     distributed only under the terms of this License or a future version\par
     of this License released under Section 6.1, and You must include a\par
     copy of this License with every copy of the Source Code You\par
     distribute. You may not offer or impose any terms on any Source Code\par
     version that alters or restricts the applicable version of this\par
     License or the recipients' rights hereunder. However, You may include\par
     an additional document offering the additional rights described in\par
     Section 3.5.\par
\par
     3.2. Availability of Source Code.\par
     Any Modification which You create or to which You contribute must be\par
     made available in Source Code form under the terms of this License\par
     either on the same media as an Executable version or via an accepted\par
     Electronic Distribution Mechanism to anyone to whom you made an\par
     Executable version available; and if made available via Electronic\par
     Distribution Mechanism, must remain available for at least twelve (12)\par
     months after the date it initially became available, or at least six\par
     (6) months after a subsequent version of that particular Modification\par
     has been made available to such recipients. You are responsible for\par
     ensuring that the Source Code version remains available even if the\par
     Electronic Distribution Mechanism is maintained by a third party.\par
\par
     3.3. Description of Modifications.\par
     You must cause all Covered Code to which You contribute to contain a\par
     file documenting the changes You made to create that Covered Code and\par
     the date of any change. You must include a prominent statement that\par
     the Modification is derived, directly or indirectly, from Original\par
     Code provided by the Initial Developer and including the name of the\par
     Initial Developer in (a) the Source Code, and (b) in any notice in an\par
     Executable version or related documentation in which You describe the\par
     origin or ownership of the Covered Code.\par
\par
     3.4. Intellectual Property Matters\par
          (a) Third Party Claims.\par
          If Contributor has knowledge that a license under a third party's\par
          intellectual property rights is required to exercise the rights\par
          granted by such Contributor under Sections 2.1 or 2.2,\par
          Contributor must include a text file with the Source Code\par
          distribution titled "LEGAL" which describes the claim and the\par
          party making the claim in sufficient detail that a recipient will\par
          know whom to contact. If Contributor obtains such knowledge after\par
          the Modification is made available as described in Section 3.2,\par
          Contributor shall promptly modify the LEGAL file in all copies\par
          Contributor makes available thereafter and shall take other steps\par
          (such as notifying appropriate mailing lists or newsgroups)\par
          reasonably calculated to inform those who received the Covered\par
          Code that new knowledge has been obtained.\par
\par
          (b) Contributor APIs.\par
          If Contributor's Modifications include an application programming\par
          interface and Contributor has knowledge of patent licenses which\par
          are reasonably necessary to implement that API, Contributor must\par
          also include this information in the LEGAL file.\par
\par
               (c)    Representations.\par
          Contributor represents that, except as disclosed pursuant to\par
          Section 3.4(a) above, Contributor believes that Contributor's\par
          Modifications are Contributor's original creation(s) and/or\par
          Contributor has sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by\par
          this License.\par
\par
     3.5. Required Notices.\par
     You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file of the Source\par
     Code.  If it is not possible to put such notice in a particular Source\par
     Code file due to its structure, then You must include such notice in a\par
     location (such as a relevant directory) where a user would be likely\par
     to look for such a notice.  If You created one or more Modification(s)\par
     You may add your name as a Contributor to the notice described in\par
     Exhibit A.  You must also duplicate this License in any documentation\par
     for the Source Code where You describe recipients' rights or ownership\par
     rights relating to Covered Code.  You may choose to offer, and to\par
     charge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or liability\par
     obligations to one or more recipients of Covered Code. However, You\par
     may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial\par
     Developer or any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear than\par
     any such warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligation is\par
     offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial\par
     Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by the\par
     Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of warranty,\par
     support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.\par
\par
     3.6. Distribution of Executable Versions.\par
     You may distribute Covered Code in Executable form only if the\par
     requirements of Section 3.1-3.5 have been met for that Covered Code,\par
     and if You include a notice stating that the Source Code version of\par
     the Covered Code is available under the terms of this License,\par
     including a description of how and where You have fulfilled the\par
     obligations of Section 3.2. The notice must be conspicuously included\par
     in any notice in an Executable version, related documentation or\par
     collateral in which You describe recipients' rights relating to the\par
     Covered Code. You may distribute the Executable version of Covered\par
     Code or ownership rights under a license of Your choice, which may\par
     contain terms different from this License, provided that You are in\par
     compliance with the terms of this License and that the license for the\par
     Executable version does not attempt to limit or alter the recipient's\par
     rights in the Source Code version from the rights set forth in this\par
     License. If You distribute the Executable version under a different\par
     license You must make it absolutely clear that any terms which differ\par
     from this License are offered by You alone, not by the Initial\par
     Developer or any Contributor. You hereby agree to indemnify the\par
     Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by\par
     the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of any such\par
     terms You offer.\par
\par
     3.7. Larger Works.\par
     You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with other code\par
     not governed by the terms of this License and distribute the Larger\par
     Work as a single product. In such a case, You must make sure the\par
     requirements of this License are fulfilled for the Covered Code.\par
\par
4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation.\par
\par
     If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this\par
     License with respect to some or all of the Covered Code due to\par
     statute, judicial order, or regulation then You must: (a) comply with\par
     the terms of this License to the maximum extent possible; and (b)\par
     describe the limitations and the code they affect. Such description\par
     must be included in the LEGAL file described in Section 3.4 and must\par
     be included with all distributions of the Source Code. Except to the\par
     extent prohibited by statute or regulation, such description must be\par
     sufficiently detailed for a recipient of ordinary skill to be able to\par
     understand it.\par
\par
5. Application of this License.\par
\par
     This License applies to code to which the Initial Developer has\par
     attached the notice in Exhibit A and to related Covered Code.\par
\par
6. Versions of the License.\par
\par
     6.1. New Versions.\par
     Netscape Communications Corporation ("Netscape") may publish revised\par
     and/or new versions of the License from time to time. Each version\par
     will be given a distinguishing version number.\par
\par
     6.2. Effect of New Versions.\par
     Once Covered Code has been published under a particular version of the\par
     License, You may always continue to use it under the terms of that\par
     version. You may also choose to use such Covered Code under the terms\par
     of any subsequent version of the License published by Netscape. No one\par
     other than Netscape has the right to modify the terms applicable to\par
     Covered Code created under this License.\par
\par
     6.3. Derivative Works.\par
     If You create or use a modified version of this License (which you may\par
     only do in order to apply it to code which is not already Covered Code\par
     governed by this License), You must (a) rename Your license so that\par
     the phrases "Mozilla", "MOZILLAPL", "MOZPL", "Netscape",\par
     "MPL", "NPL" or any confusingly similar phrase do not appear in your\par
     license (except to note that your license differs from this License)\par
     and (b) otherwise make it clear that Your version of the license\par
     contains terms which differ from the Mozilla Public License and\par
     Netscape Public License. (Filling in the name of the Initial\par
     Developer, Original Code or Contributor in the notice described in\par
     Exhibit A shall not of themselves be deemed to be modifications of\par
     this License.)\par
\par
7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.\par
\par
     COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS,\par
     WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,\par
     WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED CODE IS FREE OF\par
     DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING.\par
     THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED CODE\par
     IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED CODE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT,\par
     YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE\par
     COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER\par
     OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF\par
     ANY COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.\par
\par
8. TERMINATION.\par
\par
     8.1.  This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate\par
     automatically if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to cure\par
     such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All\par
     sublicenses to the Covered Code which are properly granted shall\par
     survive any termination of this License. Provisions which, by their\par
     nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this License\par
     shall survive.\par
\par
     8.2.  If You initiate litigation by asserting a patent infringement\par
     claim (excluding declatory judgment actions) against Initial Developer\par
     or a Contributor (the Initial Developer or Contributor against whom\par
     You file such action is referred to as "Participant")  alleging that:\par
\par
     (a)  such Participant's Contributor Version directly or indirectly\par
     infringes any patent, then any and all rights granted by such\par
     Participant to You under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this License\par
     shall, upon 60 days notice from Participant terminate prospectively,\par
     unless if within 60 days after receipt of notice You either: (i)\par
     agree in writing to pay Participant a mutually agreeable reasonable\par
     royalty for Your past and future use of Modifications made by such\par
     Participant, or (ii) withdraw Your litigation claim with respect to\par
     the Contributor Version against such Participant.  If within 60 days\par
     of notice, a reasonable royalty and payment arrangement are not\par
     mutually agreed upon in writing by the parties or the litigation claim\par
     is not withdrawn, the rights granted by Participant to You under\par
     Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 automatically terminate at the expiration of\par
     the 60 day notice period specified above.\par
\par
     (b)  any software, hardware, or device, other than such Participant's\par
     Contributor Version, directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then\par
     any rights granted to You by such Participant under Sections 2.1(b)\par
     and 2.2(b) are revoked effective as of the date You first made, used,\par
     sold, distributed, or had made, Modifications made by that\par
     Participant.\par
\par
     8.3.  If You assert a patent infringement claim against Participant\par
     alleging that such Participant's Contributor Version directly or\par
     indirectly infringes any patent where such claim is resolved (such as\par
     by license or settlement) prior to the initiation of patent\par
     infringement litigation, then the reasonable value of the licenses\par
     granted by such Participant under Sections 2.1 or 2.2 shall be taken\par
     into account in determining the amount or value of any payment or\par
     license.\par
\par
     8.4.  In the event of termination under Sections 8.1 or 8.2 above,\par
     all end user license agreements (excluding distributors and resellers)\par
     which have been validly granted by You or any distributor hereunder\par
     prior to termination shall survive termination.\par
\par
9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.\par
\par
     UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT\par
     (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE INITIAL\par
     DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED CODE,\par
     OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR\par
     ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY\par
     CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL,\par
     WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER\par
     COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN\par
     INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF\par
     LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY\par
     RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW\par
     PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE\par
     EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO\par
     THIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.\par
\par
10. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.\par
\par
     The Covered Code is a "commercial item," as that term is defined in\par
     48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial computer\par
     software" and "commercial computer software documentation," as such\par
     terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48\par
     C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995),\par
     all U.S. Government End Users acquire Covered Code with only those\par
     rights set forth herein.\par
\par
11. MISCELLANEOUS.\par
\par
     This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject\par
     matter hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be\par
     unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent\par
     necessary to make it enforceable. This License shall be governed by\par
     California law provisions (except to the extent applicable law, if\par
     any, provides otherwise), excluding its conflict-of-law provisions.\par
     With respect to disputes in which at least one party is a citizen of,\par
     or an entity chartered or registered to do business in the United\par
     States of America, any litigation relating to this License shall be\par
     subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Courts of the Northern\par
     District of California, with venue lying in Santa Clara County,\par
     California, with the losing party responsible for costs, including\par
     without limitation, court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and\par
     expenses. The application of the United Nations Convention on\par
     Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded.\par
     Any law or regulation which provides that the language of a contract\par
     shall be construed against the drafter shall not apply to this\par
     License.\par
\par
12. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.\par
\par
     As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is\par
     responsible for claims and damages arising, directly or indirectly,\par
     out of its utilization of rights under this License and You agree to\par
     work with Initial Developer and Contributors to distribute such\par
     responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing herein is intended or\par
     shall be deemed to constitute any admission of liability.\par
\par
13. MULTIPLE-LICENSED CODE.\par
\par
     Initial Developer may designate portions of the Covered Code as\par
     "Multiple-Licensed".  "Multiple-Licensed" means that the Initial\par
     Developer permits you to utilize portions of the Covered Code under\par
     Your choice of the NPL or the alternative licenses, if any, specified\par
     by the Initial Developer in the file described in Exhibit A.\par
\par
EXHIBIT A -Mozilla Public License.\par
\par
     ``The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License\par
     Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in\par
     compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at\par
     \par
http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/\par
\par
     Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"\par
     basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the\par
     License for the specific language governing rights and limitations\par
     under the License.\par
\par
     The Original Code is ______________________________________.\par
\par
     The Initial Developer of the Original Code is ________________________.\par
     Portions created by ______________________ are Copyright (C) ______\par
     _______________________. All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
     Contributor(s): ______________________________________.\par
\par
     Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms\par
     of the _____ license (the  "[___] License"), in which case the\par
     provisions of [______] License are applicable instead of those\par
     above.  If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only\par
     under the terms of the [____] License and not to allow others to use\par
     your version of this file under the MPL, indicate your decision by\par
     deleting  the provisions above and replace  them with the notice and\par
     other provisions required by the [___] License.  If you do not delete\par
     the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file\par
     under either the MPL or the [___] License."\par
\par
     [NOTE: The text of this Exhibit A may differ slightly from the text of\par
     the notices in the Source Code files of the Original Code. You should\par
     use the text of this Exhibit A rather than the text found in the\par
     Original Code Source Code for Your Modifications.]\par
\par
END OF JAVASSIST NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
==========================================================\par
\par
Jaxen 1.1.1.  The Program includes Jaxen which IBM obtained under \par
the terms and conditions of the following license.\par
 \par
 $Id: LICENSE.txt,v 1.5 2006/02/05 21:49:04 elharo Exp $\par
\par
 Copyright 2003-2006 The Werken Company. All Rights Reserved.\par
 \par
 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are\par
 met:\par
\par
  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
  * Neither the name of the Jaxen Project nor the names of its\par
    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived \par
    from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS \par
AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A \par
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL \par
THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE \par
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, \par
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, \par
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS \par
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS \par
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY \par
OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, \par
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING \par
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF \par
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF JAXEN CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
============================================\par
JCUP Parser Generator. The Program includes JCUP Parser Generator \par
which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the following license.\par
 \par
JCUP Parser Generator Copyright Notice, License, and Disclaimer\par
Copyright 1996-1999 by Scott Hudson, Frank Flannery, C. Scott Ananian\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its \par
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, \par
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and \par
that both the copyright notice and this permission notice and warranty \par
disclaimer appear in supporting documentation, and that the names \par
of the authors or their employers not be used in advertising or publicity \par
pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written \par
prior permission.\par
\par
The authors and their employers disclaim all warranties with regard \par
to this software, including all implied warranties of merchantability \par
and fitness. In no event shall the authors or their employers be liable \par
for any special, indirect or consequential damages or any damages \par
whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an \par
action of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of \par
or in connection with the use or performance of this software.\par
This is an open source license. It is also GPL-Compatible \par
(see entry for "Standard ML of New Jersey"). The portions of CUP \par
output which are hard-coded into the CUP source code are (naturally) \par
covered by this same license, as is the CUP runtime code linked \par
with the generated parser.\par
\par
Java is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc. References to \par
the Java programming language in relation to JLex are not meant\par
 to imply that Sun endorses this product. \par
\par
END OF JCUP PARSER GENERATOR CODE NOTICES AND INFO\par
================================================= \par
IBM(R) SDK, Java(TM) Technology Edition, Version 6.0:  The following notice is provided with respect to the IBM Java SDK/JRE:  \par
\par
Please refer to the Java Notices and Information file at the following location: \par
<PRODUCT_HOME>/java/notices.txt \par
\par
\par
END OF JAVA NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=========================================================================\par
\par
\par
JSR 235.  The Program includes all or portions of the following \par
software which was obtained under the terms and conditions of the \par
License for the Service Data Objects JavaDoc and Interface Definition files\par
\par
\par
\par
License for the Service Data Objects JavaDoc and Interface Definition files.\par
\par
The Service Data Objects JavaDoc and Interface Definition files are being provided by the copyright holders under the following license. By using and/or copying this work, you agree that you have read, understood and will comply with the following terms and conditions:\par
\par
Permission to copy, display, make derivative works of and distribute the Service Data Objects JavaDoc and Interface Definition files (the "Artifacts") in any medium without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies of the Artifacts, or portions thereof, that you make:\par
\par
1. A link or URL to the Artifacts at this location:\par
http://www.jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=235 \par
\par
2. The full text of this copyright notice as shown in the Artifacts.\par
\par
THE ARTIFACTS ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHORS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THE ARTIFACTS AND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THEIR CONTENTS, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS \par
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR TITLE. \par
\par
THE AUTHORS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE ARTIFACTS.\par
\par
The name and trademarks of the Authors may NOT be used in any manner, including advertising or publicity pertaining to the Service Data Objects Specification or its contents without specific, written prior permission. Title to copyright in the Service Data Objects Specification will at all times remain with the Authors.\par
\par
No other rights are granted by implication, estoppel or otherwise.\par
\par
Revision level 1.2, last updated on 2009/01/13\par
Changed the URL of the Artifacts.\par
Revision level 1.1, last updated on 2007/11/19 \par
\par
END OF JSR 235 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=========================================\par
\par
Jython 2.1. The Program includes Jython which IBM obtained under \par
the terms and conditions of the following license.\par
 \par
Copyright (c) 2000, Jython Developers\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without \par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions \par
are met:\par
\par
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright  \par
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright \par
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in  the \par
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
 either the name of the Jython Developers nor the names of  its \par
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products  derived \par
from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS \par
AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE \par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS \par
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT \par
SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR \par
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, \par
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED \par
TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; \par
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) \par
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, \par
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT \par
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN \par
ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF \par
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE\par
\par
END OF JYTHON CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
========================================== \par
\par
LIBPCAP 0.9.4 -The Program includes all or portions of the following software which was obtained under \par
the terms and conditions of the BSD License. \par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
are met:\par
  \par
  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in\par
     the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
     distribution.\par
  3. The names of the authors may not be used to endorse or promote\par
     products derived from this software without specific prior\par
     written permission.\par
  \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED\par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.\par
\par
END OF LIBPCAP CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
===============================================================================\par
Libmsg v2.3: The Program includes libmsg  software.  IBM obtained the software under the terms and conditions of the license below:\par
\par
Copyright 1990, by Alfalfa Software Incorporated, Cambridge, Massachusetts.\par
\par
All Rights Reserved\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that Alfalfa's name not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written prior permission.\par
\par
ALPHALPHA DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL ALPHALPHA BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.\par
\par
END OF LIBMSG v2.3 NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
\par
*****************************************************************************\par
The Program includes all or portions of the following software which was obtained under the terms and conditions of the MIT License. \par
\par
Kxml2 v2.2.2\par
\par
\par
dojox/lang/functional.js\par
Copyright (c) 2007 Oliver Steele\par
\par
util/buildscripts/jslib/packer/base2.js, Packer.js, Word.js\par
Copyright (C) 2007 Dean Edwards\par
\par
Dojox/highlight/_base2.js\par
Copyright (C) 2006 Ivan Sagalaev\par
\par
The MIT License\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
END OF MIT FILES NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
======================================================================\par
\par
LGPL CODE\par
\par
This Program includes some or all of the following Modifiable Third Party Code that IBM obtained under the GNU Lesser General Public License. For copies of the source code for this software, send an email to ies@ca.ibm.com identifying the IBM Program and the Modifiable Third Party Code for which you are requesting the source code.\par
\par
GNOME Binding\par
GTK+ Binding\par
\par
GNU Lesser General Public License\par
Version 2.1, February 1999\par
Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.\par
[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL. It also counts as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence the version number 2.1.]\par
Preamble\par
The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.\par
This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.\par
When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do these things.\par
To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights. These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.\par
For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link other code with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.\par
We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.\par
To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know that what they have is not the original version, so that the original author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be introduced by others.\par
Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any free program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license from a patent holder. Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.\par
Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different from the ordinary General Public License. We use this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.\par
When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined work, a derivative of the original library. The ordinary General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its criteria of freedom. The Lesser General Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with the library.\par
We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License. It also provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over competing non-free programs. These disadvantages are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many libraries. However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain special circumstances.\par
For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto standard. To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to use the library. A more frequent case is that a free library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries. In this case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.\par
In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software. For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating system.\par
Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program using a modified version of the Library.\par
The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in order to run.\par
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION\par
0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".\par
A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.\par
The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)\par
"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the library.\par
Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.\par
1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the Library.\par
You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.\par
2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:\par
a) The modified work must itself be a software library.\par
b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.\par
c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.\par
d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of its purpose remains meaningful.\par
(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by this function must be optional: if the a pplication does not supply it, the square root function must still compute square roots.)\par
These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.\par
Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the Library.\par
In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this License.\par
3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make any other change in these notices.\par
Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.\par
This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library into a program that is not a library.\par
4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.\par
If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.\par
5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this License.\par
However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.\par
When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.\par
If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)\par
Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.\par
6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.\par
You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License. Also, you must do one of these things:\par
a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application to use the modified definitions.)\par
b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library. A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.\par
c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.\par
d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials from the same place.\par
e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.\par
For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from it. However, as a special exception, the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the executable.\par
It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system. Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in an executable that you distribute.\par
7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two things:\par
a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be distributed under the terms of the Sections above.\par
b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.\par
8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.\par
9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the Library or works based on it.\par
10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.\par
11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all. For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.\par
If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.\par
It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that choice.\par
This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a consequence of the rest of this License.\par
12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this License.\par
13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.\par
Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.\par
14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.\par
NO WARRANTY\par
15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.\par
16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\par
END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries\par
If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public License).\par
To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found. \par
<one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.> Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>\par
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.\par
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.\par
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA \par
Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.\par
You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is a sample; alter the names:\par
Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.\par
signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990\par
Ty Coon, President of Vice\par
==============================================================================================\par
ObjectWeb ASM: The Program includes ASM that IBM obtained \par
under the ObjectWeb ASM License:\par
\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2000-2005 INRIA, France Telecom\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
are met:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
 documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
3. Neither the name of the copyright holders nor the names of its\par
 contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from\par
 this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS \par
AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS \par
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSEARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT \par
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE\par
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, \par
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, \par
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS \par
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS\par
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY \par
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT \par
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)\par
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS \par
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY \par
OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF OBJECTWEB ASM CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
================================================== \par
\par
OpenSSL v0.9.7c.  The Program is accompanied by software currently developed            \par
by The OpenSSL Project (http://www.openssl.org/).  IBM obtained the             \par
majority of the OpenSSL software under the terms and                   \par
conditions of the following licenses:                                           \par
                                                                                \par
  OpenSSL License                                                               \par
  ---------------                                                               \par
                                                                                \par
* Copyright (c) 1998-2003 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.            \par
*                                                                               \par
* Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without            \par
* modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions            \par
* are met:                                                                      \par
*                                                                               \par
* 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright             \par
*    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.              \par
*                                                                               \par
* 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright          \par
*    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in            \par
*    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the                 \par
*    distribution.                                                              \par
*                                                                               \par
* 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this               \par
*    software must display the following acknowledgment:                        \par
*    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project           \par
*    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"                 \par
*                                                                               \par
* 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be              \par
*    used to                                                                    \par
*    endorse or promote products derived from this software without             \par
*    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact           \par
*    openssl-core@openssl.org.                                                  \par
*                                                                               \par
* 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"            \par
*    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written              \par
*    permission of the OpenSSL Project.                                         \par
*                                                                               \par
* 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following           \par
*    acknowledgment:                                                            \par
*    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project           \par
*    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"                  \par
*                                                                               \par
* THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY            \par
* EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE           \par
* IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR            \par
* PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR             \par
* ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,              \par
* SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT                  \par
* NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;                  \par
* LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)                      \par
* HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN \par
CONTRACT,       \par
* STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)                 \par
* ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED           \par
* OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.                                            \par
*                                                                               \par
* This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young            \par
* (eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim           \par
* Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).                                                   \par
*/                                                                              \par
                                                                                \par
 Original SSLeay License                                                        \par
 -----------------------                                                        \par
                                                                                \par
/* Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)                       \par
* All rights reserved.                                                          \par
*                                                                               \par
* This package is an SSL implementation written                                 \par
* by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).                                            \par
* The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.           \par
*                                                                               \par
* This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long            \par
* as                                                                            \par
* the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions            \par
* apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA,             \par
* lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL                       \par
* documentation                                                                 \par
* included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright              \par
* terms                                                                         \par
* except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).                     \par
*                                                                               \par
* Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in          \par
* the code are not to be removed.                                               \par
* If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given              \par
* attribution                                                                   \par
* as the author of the parts of the library used.                               \par
* This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or            \par
* in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.               \par
*                                                                               \par
* Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without            \par
* modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions            \par
* are met:                                                                      \par
* 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright                   \par
*    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.              \par
* 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright          \par
*    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in            \par
*    the                                                                        \par
*    documentation and/or other materials provided with the                     \par
*    distribution.                                                              \par
* 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this               \par
*    software                                                                   \par
*    must display the following acknowledgement:                                \par
*    "This product includes cryptographic software written by                   \par
*     Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)"                                           \par
*    The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the           \par
*    library                                                                    \par
*    being used are not cryptographic related :-).                              \par
* 4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative                  \par
*    thereof) from                                                              \par
*    the apps directory (application code) you must include an                  \par
*    acknowledgement:                                                           \par
*    "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson                      \par
*    (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"                                                       \par
*                                                                               \par
* THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND                         \par
* ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,             \par
* THE                                                                           \par
* IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR            \par
* PURPOSE                                                                       \par
* ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE              \par
*LIABLE  FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR            \par
*CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF            \par
*SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR                 \par
*BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,           \par
*WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE            \par
*OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN          \par
*IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.                                   \par
                                                                                \par
*                                                                               \par
* The licence and distribution terms for any publically available               \par
* version or                                                                    \par
* derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot             \par
* simply be                                                                     \par
* copied and put under another distribution licence                             \par
* [including the GNU Public Licence.]                                           \par
*/                                                                              \par
                                                                                \par
============= COPYRIGHT DES =================                      \par
                                                                                \par
Copyright (C) 1995-1997 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)                          \par
                                                                                \par
All rights reserved.                                                            \par
                                                                                \par
                                                                                \par
This package is an DES implementation written by Eric Young                     \par
(eay@cryptsoft.com).                                                            \par
The implementation was written so as to conform with MIT's libdes.              \par
                                                                                \par
This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as           \par
the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions              \par
apply to all code found in this distribution.                                   \par
                                                                                \par
Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in            \par
the code are not to be removed.                                                 \par
If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given                \par
attribution as the author of that the SSL library.  This can be in the          \par
form of a textual message at program startup or in documentation                \par
(online or textual) provided with the package.                                  \par
                                                                                \par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without              \par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions              \par
are met:                                                                        \par
                                                                                \par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright                     \par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.                \par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright            \par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the          \par
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the                       \par
   distribution.                                                                \par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this                 \par
   software must display the following acknowledgement:                         \par
                                                                                \par
This product includes software developed by Eric Young                          \par
(eay@cryptsoft.com)                                                             \par
                                                                                \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' \par
AND ANY EXPRESS OR         \par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED \par
TO, THE IMPLIED                  \par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A \par
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE          \par
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS \par
BE LIABLE         \par
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, \par
EXEMPLARY, OR                    \par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED \par
TO, PROCUREMENT OF            \par
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, \par
OR PROFITS; OR                 \par
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED \par
AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,           \par
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, \par
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE            \par
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF \par
THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN          \par
IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.                                   \par
                                                                                \par
The license and distribution terms for any publically available                 \par
version or derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code           \par
cannot simply be copied and put under another distrubution license              \par
[including the GNU Public License.]                                             \par
                                                                                \par
The reason behind this being stated in this direct manner is past               \par
experience in code simply being copied and the attribution removed              \par
from it and then being distributed as part of other packages. This              \par
implementation was a non-trivial and unpaid effort.                             \par
                                                                                \par
============= COPYRIGHT Blowfish ====================                 \par
                                                                                \par
Copyright (C) 1995-1997 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)                          \par
All rights reserved.                                                            \par
                                                                                \par
This package is an Blowfish implementation written                              \par
by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).                                              \par
                                                                                \par
This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as           \par
the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions              \par
apply to all code found in this distribution.                                   \par
                                                                                \par
Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in            \par
the code are not to be removed.                                                 \par
                                                                                \par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without              \par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions              \par
are met:                                                                        \par
                                                                                \par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright                     \par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.                \par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright            \par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the          \par
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.         \par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this                 \par
   software must display the following acknowledgement:                         \par
This product includes software developed by Eric Young                          \par
(eay@cryptsoft.com)                                                             \par
                                                                                \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND \par
ANY EXPRESS OR       \par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED \par
TO, THE IMPLIED                  \par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR \par
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE          \par
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR \par
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE             \par
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, \par
EXEMPLARY, OR                    \par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT \par
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF            \par
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, \par
OR PROFITS; OR                 \par
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON \par
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,           \par
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT \par
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE            \par
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE \par
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN          \par
IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.                                   \par
                                                                                \par
The license and distribution terms for any publically available                 \par
version or derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code           \par
cannot simply be copied and put under another distrubution license              \par
[including the GNU Public License.]                                             \par
                                                                                \par
The reason behind this being stated in this direct manner is past               \par
experience in code simply being copied and the attribution removed              \par
from it and then being distributed as part of other packages. This              \par
implementation was a non-trivial and unpaid effort.                             \par
                                                                                \par
=========== typical c-file header for Copyrights =========           \par
                                                                                \par
/* apps/crl2p7.c */                                                             \par
/* Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)                       \par
* All rights reserved.                                                          \par
*                                                                               \par
* This package is an SSL implementation written                                 \par
* by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).                                            \par
* The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.           \par
*                                                                               \par
* This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long            \par
* as                                                                            \par
* the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions            \par
* apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA,             \par
* lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL                       \par
* documentation                                                                 \par
* included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright              \par
* terms                                                                         \par
* except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).                     \par
*                                                                               \par
* Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in          \par
* the code are not to be removed.                                               \par
* If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given              \par
* attribution                                                                   \par
* as the author of the parts of the library used.                               \par
* This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or            \par
* in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.               \par
*                                                                               \par
* Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without            \par
* modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions            \par
* are met:                                                                      \par
* 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright                   \par
*    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.              \par
* 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright          \par
*    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in            \par
*    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the                 \par
*    distribution.                                                              \par
* 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this               \par
*    software must display the following acknowledgement:                       \par
*    "This product includes cryptographic software written by                   \par
*    Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)"                                            \par
*    The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the           \par
*    library                                                                    \par
*    being used are not cryptographic related :-).                              \par
* 4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative                  \par
*    thereof) from                                                              \par
*    the apps directory (application code) you must include an                  \par
*    acknowledgement:                                                           \par
*    "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson                      \par
*    (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"                                                       \par
*                                                                               \par
* THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND                         \par
* ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT \par
*LIMITED TO,          \par
* THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND \par
*FITNESS FOR A                   \par
* PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT \par
*SHALL THE AUTHOR OR           \par
* CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, \par
*INCIDENTAL,                  \par
* SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES \par
*(INCLUDING, BUT NOT              \par
* LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE \par
*GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF              \par
* USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)                              \par
* HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, \par
*WHETHER IN CONTRACT,           \par
* STRICT                                                                        \par
* LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) \par
*ARISING IN          \par
*ANY WAY  OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF \par
*ADVISED OF THE                \par
*POSSIBILITY OF  SUCH DAMAGE.                                                    \par
*                                                                               \par
* The licence and distribution terms for any publically available               \par
* version or                                                                    \par
* derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot             \par
* simply be copied and put under another distribution licence                   \par
* [including the GNU Public Licence.]                                           \par
*/                                                                              \par
                                                                                \par
/* This was written by Gordon Chaffee                                           \par
<chaffee@plateau.cs.berkeley.edu>                                               \par
* and donated 'to the cause' along with lots and lots of other fixes            \par
* to the library. */                                                            \par
                                                                                \par
END OF OPENSSL NOTICES AND INFORMATION                                          \par
==================================================    \par
\par
OSOA COLLABORATION'S LICENSE FOR SCA: The Program includes certain information \par
Related to the Service Component Architecture JavaDoc, Interface Definition files and XSD files\par
\par
Start of OSOA Collaboration's license for SCA\par
\par
License for the Service Component Architecture JavaDoc, Interface \par
Definition files and XSD files.\par
\par
The Service Component Architecture JavaDoc, Interface Definition files, \par
and XSD files are being provided by the copyright holders under the \par
following license. By using and/or copying this work, you agree that \par
you have read, understood and will comply with the following terms and \par
conditions:\par
\par
Permission to copy, display, make derivative works of, and distribute \par
the Service Component Architecture JavaDoc, Interface Definition Files \par
and XSD files (the "Artifacts") in any medium without fee or royalty is \par
hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies \par
of the Artifacts, or portions thereof, that you make: \par
\par
1. A link or URL to the Artifacts at this location:\par
http://www.osoa.org/display/Main/Service+Component+Architecture+Specifications \par
\par
2. The full text of this copyright notice as shown in the Artifacts.\par
\par
THE ARTIFACTS ARE PROVIDED "AS IS," AND THE AUTHORS MAKE NO \par
REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THE \par
ARTIFACTS AND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THEIR CONTENTS, INCLUDING, BUT NOT \par
LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR \par
PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR TITLE.  \par
\par
THE AUTHORS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, \par
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY \par
USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE ARTIFACTS.\par
\par
The name and trademarks of the Authors may NOT be used in any manner, \par
including advertising or publicity pertaining to the Service Component \par
Architecture Specification or its contents without specific, written \par
prior permission. Title to copyright in the Service Component \par
Architecture Specification and the JavaDoc, Interface Definition Files \par
and XSD Files will at all times remain with the Authors.\par
\par
No other rights are granted by implication, estoppel or otherwise.\par
\par
Revision level 1.1, last updated on 2007/11/19\par
 \par
End of OSOA Group's license for SCA\par
============================================================\par
\par
Perl Compatible Regular Expression (PCRE) 5.0.  The Program includes \par
PCRE which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the following license.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\par
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
    * Neither the name of the University of Cambridge nor the name of Google\par
      Inc. nor the names of their contributors may be used to endorse or\par
      promote products derived from this software without specific prior\par
      written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS \par
AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A \par
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT \par
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE \par
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, \par
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, \par
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS \par
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS \par
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY \par
OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, \par
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)\par
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, \par
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF PCRE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================\par
\par
Retroweaver.  The Program includes all or portions of the following \par
software which was obtained under the terms and conditions of the \par
BSD License.\par
\par
Retroweaver 2.0\par
\par
Copyright (c) February 2004, Toby Reyelts\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, \par
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \par
\par
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. \par
\par
Neither the name of Toby Reyelts nor the names of his contributors \par
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software \par
without specific prior written permission. \par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF RETROWEAVER NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
========================================\par
\par
SDO3.  The Program includes all or portions of the following \par
software which was obtained under the terms and conditions of the \par
OASIS License.\par
\par
SDO3\par
Copyright (C) OASIS(R) 2005, 2009. All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
All capitalized terms in the following text have the meanings assigned to them in the OASIS Intellectual \par
Property Rights Policy (the "OASIS IPR Policy"). The full Policy may be found at the OASIS website.\par
This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to others, and derivative works that \par
comment on or otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published, \par
and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above copyright \par
notice and this section are included on all such copies and derivative works. However, this document \par
itself may not be modified in any way, including by removing the copyright notice or references to OASIS, \par
except as needed for the purpose of developing any document or deliverable produced by an OASIS \par
Technical Committee (in which case the rules applicable to copyrights, as set forth in the OASIS IPR \par
Policy, must be followed) or as required to translate it into languages other than English.\par
The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be revoked by OASIS or its successors \par
or assigns.\par
\par
This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and OASIS \par
DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY \par
WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY OWNERSHIP \par
RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR \par
PURPOSE.\par
\par
OASIS requests that any OASIS Party or any other party that believes it has patent claims that would \par
necessarily be infringed by implementations of this OASIS Committee Specification or OASIS Standard, \par
to notify OASIS TC Administrator and provide an indication of its willingness to grant patent licenses to \par
such patent claims in a manner consistent with the IPR Mode of the OASIS Technical Committee that \par
produced this specification.\par
\par
OASIS invites any party to contact the OASIS TC Administrator if it is aware of a claim of ownership of \par
any patent claims that would necessarily be infringed by implementations of this specification by a patent \par
holder that is not willing to provide a license to such patent claims in a manner consistent with the IPR \par
Mode of the OASIS Technical Committee that produced this specification. OASIS may include such \par
claims on its website, but disclaims any obligation to do so.\par
\par
OASIS takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any intellectual property or other rights that \par
might be claimed to pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in this document or \par
the extent to which any license under such rights might or might not be available; neither does it represent \par
that it has made any effort to identify any such rights. Information on OASIS' procedures with respect to \par
rights in any document or deliverable produced by an OASIS Technical Committee can be found on the \par
OASIS website. Copies of claims of rights made available for publication and any assurances of licenses \par
to be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use \par
of such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this OASIS Committee Specification or OASIS \par
Standard, can be obtained from the OASIS TC Administrator. OASIS makes no representation that any \par
information or list of intellectual property rights will at any time be complete, or that any claims in such list \par
are, in fact, Essential Claims.\par
\par
The names "OASIS",  are trademarks of OASIS, the owner and developer of this specification, and should \par
be used only to refer to the organization and its official outputs. OASIS welcomes reference to, and \par
implementation and use of, specifications, while reserving the right to enforce its marks against misleading \par
uses. Please see http://www.oasis-open.org/who/trademark.php for above guidance.\par
END OF SDO 3 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=============================================================\par
\par
SERP 1.13.1.  The Program includes SERP which IBM obtained under \par
the terms and conditions of the following license. \par
\par
Copyright (c) 2002-2006, A. Abram White\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without \par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this \par
  list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, \par
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation \par
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
* Neither the name of 'serp' nor the names of its contributors may\par
  be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without \par
  specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS \par
AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR \par
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT \par
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS \par
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, \par
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES \par
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF \par
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR \par
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED \par
AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, \par
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)\par
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,\par
 EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF SERP CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=========================================================================\par
\par
SERVICE COMPONENT ARCHITECTURE SPECIFICATION: The Program includes certain information \par
related to the Service Component Architecture Specification. \par
\par
Copyright Notice\par
(C) Copyright BEA Systems, Inc., Cape Clear Software, International Business Machines Corp, Interface21, IONA Technologies, Oracle, Primeton Technologies, Progress Software, Red Hat, Rogue Wave Software, SAP AG., Siemens AG., Software AG., Sun Microsystems, Inc., Sybase Inc., TIBCO Software Inc., 2005, 2007. All rights reserved.\par
License\par
The Service Component Architecture Specification is being provided by the copyright holders under the following license. By using and/or copying this work, you agree that you have read, understood and will comply with the following terms and conditions:\par
Permission to copy, display and distribute the Service Component Architecture Specification and/or portions thereof, without modification, in any medium without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies of the Service Component Architecture Specification, or portions thereof, that you make:\par
1. A link or URL to the Service Component Architecture Specification at this location:\par
* http://www.osoa.org/display/Main/Service+Component+Architecture+Specifications\par
2. The full text of the copyright notice as shown in the Service Component Architecture Specification.\par
BEA, Cape Clear, IBM, Interface21, IONA, Oracle, Primeton, Progress Software, Red Hat, Rogue Wave, SAP, Siemens, Software AG., Sun, Sybase, TIBCO (collectively, the "Authors") agree to grant you a royalty-free license, under reasonable, non-discriminatory terms and conditions to patents that they deem necessary to implement the Service Component Architecture Specification.\par
THE Service Component Architecture SPECIFICATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND THE AUTHORS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THIS SPECIFICATION AND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF ITS CONTENTS, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR TITLE.\par
THE AUTHORS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE Service Components Architecture SPECIFICATION.\par
The name and trademarks of the Authors may NOT be used in any manner, including advertising or publicity pertaining to the Service Component Architecture Specification or its contents without specific, written prior permission. Title to copyright in the Service Component Architecture Specification will at all times remain with the Authors.\par
No other rights are granted by implication, estoppel or otherwise.\par
\par
END SERVICE COMPONENT ARCHITECTURE SPECIFICATION NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=========================================================================\par
\par
SLF4J 1.6.1.  The Program includes SLF4J which IBM obtained under \par
the terms and conditions of the following license. \par
\par
Copyright (c) 2004-2007 QOS.ch\par
 * All rights reserved.\par
 * \par
 * Permission is hereby granted, free  of charge, to any person obtaining\par
 * a  copy  of this  software  and  associated  documentation files  (the\par
 * "Software"), to  deal in  the Software without  restriction, including\par
 * without limitation  the rights to  use, copy, modify,  merge, publish,\par
 * distribute,  sublicense, and/or sell  copies of  the Software,  and to\par
 * permit persons to whom the Software  is furnished to do so, subject to\par
 * the following conditions:\par
 * \par
 * The  above  copyright  notice  and  this permission  notice  shall  be\par
 * included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
 * \par
 * THE  SOFTWARE IS  PROVIDED  "AS  IS", WITHOUT  WARRANTY  \par
 *OF ANY  KIND,  EXPRESS OR  IMPLIED, INCLUDING  BUT NOT \par
 *LIMITED  TO THE  WARRANTIES OF  MERCHANTABILITY,    \par
 *FITNESS    FOR    A   PARTICULAR    PURPOSE    AND\par
  *NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR \par
 *COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE  LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, \par
 *DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION\par
 * OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,  ARISING FROM, \par
 *OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE \par
 *USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
END OF SLF4J NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
===============================================\par
XMLPULL 1.1.3.1\par
 \par
XMLPULL API IS FREE\par
-------------------\par
\par
All of the XMLPULL API source code, compiled code, and documentation \par
contained in this distribution *except* for tests (see separate LICENSE_TESTS.txt)\par
are in the Public Domain.\par
\par
XMLPULL API comes with NO WARRANTY or guarantee of fitness for any purpose.\par
\par
Initial authors:\par
\par
  Stefan Haustein\par
  Aleksander Slominski\par
\par
2001-12-12\par
END OF XMLPULL NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
W3C(R):  The Program includes all or portions of this\par
software which was obtained under the terms and conditions of the \par
W3C(R) Software Notice and License.\par
\par
XML Schema and  XGrammar\par
WS-Addressing  \par
\par
W3C(R) SOFTWARE NOTICE AND LICENSE\par
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/copyright-software-20021231\par
This work (and included software, documentation such as READMEs, or other related items) is being provided by the copyright holders under the following license. By obtaining, using and/or copying this work, you (the licensee) agree that you have read, understood, and will comply with the following terms and conditions.\par
Permission to copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation, with or without modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies of the software and documentation or portions thereof, including modifications:\par
1. The full text of this NOTICE in a location viewable to users of the redistributed or derivative work.\par
2. Any pre-existing intellectual property disclaimers, notices, or terms and conditions. If none exist, the W3C Software Short Notice should be included (hypertext is preferred, text is permitted) within the body of any redistributed or derivative code.\par
3. Notice of any changes or modifications to the files, including the date changes were made. (We recommend you provide URIs to the location from which the code is derived.)\par
THIS SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.\par
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION.\par
The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to the software without specific, written prior permission. Title to copyright in this software and any associated documentation will at all times remain with copyright holders.\par
____________________________________\par
This formulation of W3C's notice and license became active on December 31 2002. This version removes the copyright ownership notice such that this license can be used with materials other than those owned by the W3C, reflects that ERCIM is now a host of the W3C, includes references to this specific dated version of the license, and removes the ambiguous grant of "use". Otherwise, this version is the same as the previous version and is written so as to preserve the Free Software Foundation's assessment of GPL compatibility and OSI's certification under the Open Source Definition. Please see our Copyright FAQ for common questions about using materials from our site, including specific terms and conditions for packages like libwww, Amaya, and Jigsaw. Other questions about this notice can be directed to site-policy@w3.org.\par
 \par
Joseph Reagle <site-policy@w3.org> \par
Last revised $Id: copyright-software-20021231.html,v 1.11 2004/07/06 16:02:49 slesch Exp $\par
\par
END OF W3C(R)  CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
=========================================================================\par
WINPCAP 4.0 Alpha - The Program includes all or portions of this software which was obtained under \par
following terms and conditions:  \par
\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1999 - 2005 NetGroup, Politecnico di Torino (Italy).\par
Copyright (c) 2005 - 2009 CACE Technologies, Davis (California).\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. \par
3. Neither the name of the Politecnico di Torino, CACE Technologies nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. \par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
This product includes software developed by the University of California, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and its contributors. \par
This product includes software developed by the Kungliga Tekniska H^gskolan and its contributors.\par
This product includes software developed by Yen Yen Lim and North Dakota State University.\par
 \par
\par
Portions Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement: "This product includes software developed by the University of California, Berkeley and its contributors."\par
4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
Portions Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation, advertising materials, and other materials related to such distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed by the University of California, Berkeley. The name of the University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.\par
\par
Portions Copyright (c) 1995, 1996, 1997 Kungliga Tekniska H^gskolan (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden). All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement: "This product includes software developed by the Kungliga Tekniska H^gskolan and its contributors."\par
4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Yen Yen Lim and North Dakota State University. All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement: "This product includes software developed by Yen Yen Lim and North Dakota State University"\par
4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
Portions Copyright (c) 1993 by Digital Equipment Corporation.\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the name of Digital Equipment Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the document or software without specific, written prior permission.\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP. DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. \par
\par
Portions Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, and 1999 WIDE Project. All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
3. Neither the name of the project nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE PROJECT AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE PROJECT OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS\par
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY\par
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \par
\par
Portions Copyright (c) 1996 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that: (1) source code distributions retain the above copyright notice and this paragraph in its entirety, (2) distributions including binary code include the above copyright notice and this paragraph in its entirety in the documentation or other materials provided with the distribution. The name of Juniper Networks may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. \par
\par
Portions Copyright (c) 2001 Daniel Hartmeier All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \par
- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. \par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTOR "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \par
\par
Portions Copyright 1989 by Carnegie Mellon.\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this program for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that this copyright and permission notice appear on all copies and supporting documentation, the name of Carnegie Mellon not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the program without specific prior permission, and notice be given in supporting documentation that copying and distribution is by permission of Carnegie Mellon and Stanford University. Carnegie Mellon makes no representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.\par
END OF WINPCAP NOTICES\par
=============================================================\par
\par
Zlib 1.1.4.  The Program includes Zlib which IBM obtained under \par
the terms and conditions of the following license.\par
\par
/* zlib.h -- interface of the 'zlib' general purpose compression library\par
  version 1.2.3, July 18th, 2005\par
\par
  Copyright (C) 1995-2005 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler\par
\par
  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied\par
  warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages\par
  arising from the use of this software.\par
\par
  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,\par
  including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it\par
  freely, subject to the following restrictions:\par
\par
  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not\par
     claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software\par
     in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be\par
     appreciated but is not required.\par
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be\par
     misrepresented as being the original software.\par
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.\par
\par
  Jean-loup Gailly jloup@gzip.org\par
  Mark Adler madler@alumni.caltech.edu\par
\par
END OF ZLIB CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
============================================ \par
BSD License:\par
\par
\'e2\'80\'b9\tab DOJO Web Builder  - Copyright (c)2005 -2011, The Dojo Foundation\par
\'e2\'80\'b9\tab Firebug Lite Files - Copyright (c) 2008 Azer KoAulu http://azer.kodfabrik.com\par
\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this\par
    list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,\par
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation\par
    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
  * Neither the name of the Dojo Foundation nor the names of its contributors\par
    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software\par
    without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND\par
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED\par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR\par
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER\par
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,\par
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE\par
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
End of BSD Notices File and License \par
======================================================================\par
END OF NOTICES AND INFORMATION for WAS ND - 8.5.5\par
======================================================================\par
\par
===========================================================================\par
Angular Files License\par
---------------------\par
\par
Following OSS are Licensed under MIT License\par
\par
angularJS 1.4.7\par
angular-animate.js 1.4.7\par
angular-aria.js 1.4.7\par
angular-touch.js 1.4.7\par
angular-i18n.js 1.4.7\par
Angular-messages.js 1.4.7\par
angular-sanitize.js 1.4.7\par
\par
The MIT License\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2010-2015 Google, Inc. http://angularjs.org\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy\par
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal\par
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights\par
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell\par
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is\par
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in\par
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE\par
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER\par
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,\par
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN\par
THE SOFTWARE.\par
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
angular-bootstrap 0.14.3 OSS is Licensed under following MIT License\par
\par
The MIT License\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2012-2015 the AngularUI Team, https://github.com/organizations/angular-ui/teams/291112\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy\par
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal\par
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights\par
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell\par
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is\par
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in\par
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE\par
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER\par
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,\par
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN\par
THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
i18next 1.10.3 OSS is Licensed under following MIT License\par
\par
The MIT License (MIT)\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2011 Jan M,hlemann\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy\par
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal\par
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights\par
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell\par
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is\par
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in\par
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE\par
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER\par
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,\par
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN\par
THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
============================================================================================\par
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
=====================================================================================================\par
Notices Content for ExperienceOne Peretz Common UI components 15.3\par
======================================================================================================\par
\par
IBM received some or all of the code in the following components under the Apache License 2.0\par
The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Apache License Version 2.0:\par
-\tab  nvd3 v1.1.15 -beta\par
 \par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from the Apache Software Foundation:  \par
\par
/*\par
 *                                 Apache License\par
 *                           Version 2.0, January 2004\par
 *                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/\par
 *\par
 *   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION\par
 *\par
 *   1. Definitions.\par
 *\par
 *      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.\par
 *\par
 *      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright owner that is granting the License.\par
 *\par
 *      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.\par
 *\par
 *      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising permissions granted by this License.\par
 *\par
 *      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and configuration files.\par
 *\par
 *      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.\par
 *\par
 *      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix below).\par
 *\par
 *      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other  modifications represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.\par
 *\par
 *      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright  owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."\par
 *\par
 *      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently incorporated within the Work. \par
 *\par
 *   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form. \par
 *\par
 *   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.\par
 *\par
 *   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:\par
 *\par
 *      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy of this License; and\par
 *\par
 *      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that You changed the files; and\par
 *\par
 *      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and\par
 *\par
 *      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along with the Derivative  Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying the License. \par
 *\par
 *      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a  whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this License. \par
 *\par
 *   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any additional terms or conditions.  Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions. \par
 *\par
 *   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.\par
 *\par
 *   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY  KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.\par
 *\par
 *   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such damages. \par
 *\par
 *   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability\par
===========================================================================\par
IBM received some or all of the code in the following components under BSD Style License\par
-\tab D3 v3.3.13\par
- \tab Dojo v1.8\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute, execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to do so, all subject to the following:\par
\par
The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer, must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by a source language processor.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT\par
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
IBM received some or all of the code in the following components under the MIT License\par
-\tab Angular.JS 1.2.21,  1.2.25, 1.3.0, 1.3.1, 1.3.3, 1.3.7, 1.3.15\par
-\tab angular-animate 1.3.0\par
-\tab angular-bootstrap 0.11.0, 0.11.2, 0.12.0, 0.12.1\par
-\tab angular-gridster 0.11.2 , 0.11.7\par
-\tab angular-mocks 1.2.15\par
-\tab angular-moment 0.7.1, 0.8.3\par
-\tab angular-ui-router 0.2.10, 0.2.11, 0.2.13\par
-\tab angular-sanitize 1.2.16, 1.3.17\par
-\tab angular-ui-sortable 0.12.6\par
-\tab angular-translate 2.6.1, 2.7.0, 2.7.2, \par
-\tab angular-translate-loader-static-files 2.6.1, 2.7.0, 2.7.2\par
-\tab angular-touch 1.2.16\par
-\tab bootstrap 3.1.1, 3.3.4\par
-\tab canvg 1.3\par
-\tab Free-Jqgrid 4.9.0\par
-\tab html2canvas 0.4.1, 0.5.0-alpha2\par
-\tab i18next 1.7.4, 1.7.7\par
-\tab jqgrid 4.6.0\par
-\tab jquery 2.1.1, 2.1.3\par
-\tab jquery-ui 1.10.4, 1.11.2\par
-\tab jspdf 1.0.178\par
-\tab ng-i18next 0.3.5, 0.3.6\par
-\tab prism 1.0\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell\par
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE\par
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER\par
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,\par
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN\par
THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
===============================================================================================================================================================================\par
End of Notices content for ExperienceOne Peretz Common UI components 15.3\par
===============================================================================================================================================================================\par
\par
===============================================================================================================================================================================\par
Start of Notices content for Knowledge Center Customer Install Edition 1.5.1 ===============================================================================================================================================================================\par
\par
SOFTWARE: \par
    log4j 1.2\par
    commons-io 2.0.1\par
    commons-lang 3.1\par
    commong-logging 1.1.1\par
    google-gson 2.2.2\par
    uadetector 0.8\par
    uadetector-resources  2013.09\par
    commons-collections  3.2.1\par
    commons-codec  1.4\par
    lucene\par
    DITA Open Toolkit\par
\par
\par
APACHE CODE. The Program includes all or portions of the above software\par
developed by the Apache Software Foundation. This software consists of \par
voluntary contributions made by many individuals on behalf of the Apache \par
Software Foundation. For more information on the Apache Software\par
Foundation, please see http://www.apache.org:\par
\par
IBM is required to provide you, as the recipient of such software, with a \par
copy of the following license from the Apache Software Foundation: \par
\par
Apache License\par
Version 2.0, January 2004\par
http://www.apache.org/licenses/\par
\par
\par
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION\par
\par
1. Definitions.\par
\par
\par
"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,\par
and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.\par
\par
"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the \par
copyright owner that is granting the License.\par
\par
"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other \par
entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with\par
that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the \par
power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such \par
entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent\par
(50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of \par
such entity.\par
\par
"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising \par
permissions granted by this License.\par
\par
"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, \par
including but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and\par
configuration files.\par
\par
"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation\par
or translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled \par
object code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.\par
\par
"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form,\par
made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is\par
included in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix \par
below).\par
\par
"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, \par
that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial \par
revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a\par
whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, \par
Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or \par
merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative \par
Works thereof.\par
\par
"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original \par
version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or \par
Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for \par
inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal \par
Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the \par
purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic, \par
verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its \par
representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic \par
mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that\par
are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing\par
and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously \par
marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a \par
Contribution."\par
\par
"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on \par
behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently\par
incorporated within the Work.\par
\par
2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this\par
License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-\par
exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to \par
reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform,\par
sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or \par
Object form.\par
\par
3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this \par
License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-\par
exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this \par
section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, \par
import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to\par
those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily \par
infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their \par
Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. \par
If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-\par
claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution\par
incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent \par
infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License for\par
that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.\par
\par
4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or \par
Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and \par
in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:\par
\par
 (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works\par
 a copy of this License; and\par
\par
 (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices \par
 stating that You changed the files; and\par
\par
 (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that\par
 You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution\par
 notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices\par
 that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and\par
\par
 (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its \par
 distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must \par
 include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained \par
 within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not \par
 pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of \par
 the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as \par
 part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or \par
 documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or, \par
 within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and \par
 wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of\par
 the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not \par
 modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices \par
 within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an \par
 addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such \par
 additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying \par
 the License.\par
\par
You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may \par
provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, \par
reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such \par
Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and \par
distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in \par
this License.\par
\par
5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any \par
Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the\par
Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without \par
any additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing \par
herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement\par
you may have executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.\par
\par
6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade \par
names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except \par
as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the\par
Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.\par
\par
7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in\par
writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its \par
Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY \par
KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any \par
warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or \par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining\par
the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks\par
associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.\par
\par
8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether \par
in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by \par
applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to\par
in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including \par
any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any \par
character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability\par
to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,\par
work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other \par
commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of\par
the possibility of such damages.\par
\par
9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work\par
or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for, \par
acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations \par
and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such \par
obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole \par
responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You \par
agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any \par
liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by \par
reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.\par
\par
=========================================================================\par
\par
Copyright c 2002-2014 The Apache Software Foundation. All Rights Reserved.\par
Apache Commons, Apache Commons IO, Apache, the Apache feather logo, and the Apache Commons project logos are trademarks of The Apache Software Foundation. All other marks mentioned may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.\par
\par
=========================================================================\par
\par
Copyright c 2001-2014 The Apache Software Foundation. All Rights Reserved.\par
Apache Commons, Apache Commons Lang, Apache, the Apache feather logo, and the Apache Commons project logos are trademarks of The Apache Software Foundation. All other marks mentioned may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.\par
\par
=========================================================================\par
\par
Copyright c 2001-2013 The Apache Software Foundation. All Rights Reserved.\par
Apache Commons, Apache Commons Logging, Apache, the Apache feather logo, and the Apache Commons project logos are trademarks of The Apache Software Foundation. All other marks mentioned may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.\par
\par
\par
=========================================================================\tab\par
\par
Copyright c 2001-2014 The Apache Software Foundation. All Rights Reserved.\par
Apache Commons, Apache Commons Collections, Apache, the Apache feather logo, and the Apache Commons project logos are trademarks of The Apache Software Foundation. All other marks mentioned may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.\par
\par
\par
=========================================================================\par
\par
Copyright c 2002-2014 The Apache Software Foundation. All Rights Reserved.\par
Apache Commons, Apache Commons Codec, Apache, the Apache feather logo, and the Apache Commons project logos are trademarks of The Apache Software Foundation. All other marks mentioned may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.\par
Contact Information : \par
\tab\par
=========================================================================\par
\par
Software: \par
    Wink 1.3\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2011, The Dojo Foundation. All rights reserved.\par
\tab\tab\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are\par
permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\tab\tab\par
 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of\par
conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\tab\tab\par
 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list\par
of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials\par
provided with the distribution.\par
\tab\tab  \par
3. Neither the name of The Dojo Foundation nor the names of its contributors\par
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software\par
without specific prior written permission.\par
\tab\tab\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED\par
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL <COPYRIGHT HOLDER> OR\par
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR\par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR\par
SERVICES, LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS, OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON\par
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING\par
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF\par
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
=========================================================================\par
\par
SOFTWARE: \par
    Dojo V1.7\par
\par
The Program includes all or portions of the above software which was \par
obtained under the terms and conditions of the BSD License.\par
\par
 \par
Copyright (c) 2004-2007, The Dojo Foundation\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this \par
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this \par
list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or \par
other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
* Neither the name of the Dojo Foundation nor the names of its contributors may \par
be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without \par
specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" \par
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE \par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE \par
ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE \par
LIABLE FORANY DIRECT,INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR \par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF \par
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS\par
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN \par
CONTRACT,STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) \par
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF\par
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF DOJO TOOLKIT NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
===============================================================\par
\par
Software: \par
    Jericho 2.6\par
\par
\par
IBM is required to provide you, as the recipient of above software, with a \par
copy of the following license.\par
\par
\par
Eclipse Public License - v 1.0\par
\par
1. DEFINITIONS\par
\par
"Contribution" means:\par
\par
a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial code and documentation distributed under this Agreement, and\par
\par
b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:\par
\par
i) changes to the Program, and\par
\par
ii) additions to the Program;\par
\par
where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and are distributed by that particular Contributor. A Contribution 'originates' from a Contributor if it was added to the Program by such Contributor itself or anyone acting on such Contributor's behalf. Contributions do not include additions to the Program which: (i) are separate modules of software distributed in conjunction with the Program under their own license agreement, and (ii) are not derivative works of the Program.\par
\par
"Contributor" means any person or entity that distributes the Program.\par
\par
"Licensed Patents" mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor which are necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution alone or when combined with the Program.\par
\par
"Program" means the Contributions distributed in accordance with this Agreement.\par
\par
"Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this Agreement, including all Contributors.\par
\par
2. GRANT OF RIGHTS\par
\par
a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform, distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, and such derivative works, in source code and object code form.\par
\par
b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent license under Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell, import and otherwise transfer the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, in source code and object code form. This patent license shall apply to the combination of the Contribution and the Program if, at the time the Contribution is added by the Contributor, such addition of the Contribution causes such combination to be covered by the Licensed Patents. The patent license shall not apply to any other combinations which include the Contribution. No hardware per se is licensed hereunder.\par
\par
c) Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the licenses to its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are provided by any Contributor that the Program does not infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of any other entity. Each Contributor disclaims any liability to Recipient for claims brought by any other entity based on infringement of intellectual property rights or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the rights and licenses granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility to secure any other intellectual property rights needed, if any. For example, if a third party patent license is required to allow Recipient to distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility to acquire that license before distributing the Program.\par
\par
d) Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient copyright rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright license set forth in this Agreement.\par
\par
3. REQUIREMENTS\par
\par
A Contributor may choose to distribute the Program in object code form under its own license agreement, provided that:\par
\par
a) it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and\par
\par
b) its license agreement:\par
\par
i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties and conditions, express and implied, including warranties or conditions of title and non-infringement, and implied warranties or conditions of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose;\par
\par
ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability for damages, including direct, indirect, special, incidental and consequential damages, such as lost profits;\par
\par
iii) states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are offered by that Contributor alone and not by any other party; and\par
\par
iv) states that source code for the Program is available from such Contributor, and informs licensees how to obtain it in a reasonable manner on or through a medium customarily used for software exchange.\par
\par
When the Program is made available in source code form:\par
\par
a) it must be made available under this Agreement; and\par
\par
b) a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the Program.\par
\par
Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright notices contained within the Program.\par
\par
Each Contributor must identify itself as the originator of its Contribution, if any, in a manner that reasonably allows subsequent Recipients to identify the originator of the Contribution.\par
\par
4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION\par
\par
Commercial distributors of software may accept certain responsibilities with respect to end users, business partners and the like. While this license is intended to facilitate the commercial use of the Program, the Contributor who includes the Program in a commercial product offering should do so in a manner which does not create potential liability for other Contributors. Therefore, if a Contributor includes the Program in a commercial product offering, such Contributor ("Commercial Contributor") hereby agrees to defend and indemnify every other Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") against any losses, damages and costs (collectively "Losses") arising from claims, lawsuits and other legal actions brought by a third party against the Indemnified Contributor to the extent caused by the acts or omissions of such Commercial Contributor in connection with its distribution of the Program in a commercial product offering. The obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses relating to any actual or alleged intellectual property infringement. In order to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly notify the Commercial Contributor in writing of such claim, and b) allow the Commercial Contributor to control, and cooperate with the Commercial Contributor in, the defense and any related settlement negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may participate in any such claim at its own expense.\par
\par
For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial product offering, Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial Contributor. If that Commercial Contributor then makes performance claims, or offers warranties related to Product X, those performance claims and warranties are such Commercial Contributor's responsibility alone. Under this section, the Commercial Contributor would have to defend claims against the other Contributors related to those performance claims and warranties, and if a court requires any other Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the Commercial Contributor must pay those damages.\par
\par
5. NO WARRANTY\par
\par
EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each Recipient is solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using and distributing the Program and assumes all risks associated with its exercise of rights under this Agreement , including but not limited to the risks and costs of program errors, compliance with applicable laws, damage to or loss of data, programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption of operations.\par
\par
6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY\par
\par
EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\par
\par
7. GENERAL\par
\par
If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the terms of this Agreement, and without further action by the parties hereto, such provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable.\par
\par
If Recipient institutes patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program itself (excluding combinations of the Program with other software or hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then such Recipient's rights granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.\par
\par
All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it fails to comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this Agreement and does not cure such failure in a reasonable period of time after becoming aware of such noncompliance. If all Recipient's rights under this Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to cease use and distribution of the Program as soon as reasonably practicable. However, Recipient's obligations under this Agreement and any licenses granted by Recipient relating to the Program shall continue and survive.\par
\par
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement, but in order to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and may only be modified in the following manner. The Agreement Steward reserves the right to publish new versions (including revisions) of this Agreement from time to time. No one other than the Agreement Steward has the right to modify this Agreement. The Eclipse Foundation is the initial Agreement Steward. The Eclipse Foundation may assign the responsibility to serve as the Agreement Steward to a suitable separate entity. Each new version of the Agreement will be given a distinguishing version number. The Program (including Contributions) may always be distributed subject to the version of the Agreement under which it was received. In addition, after a new version of the Agreement is published, Contributor may elect to distribute the Program (including its Contributions) under the new version. Except as expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, Recipient receives no rights or licenses to the intellectual property of any Contributor under this Agreement, whether expressly, by implication, estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program not expressly granted under this Agreement are reserved.\par
\par
This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and the intellectual property laws of the United States of America. No party to this Agreement will bring a legal action under this Agreement more than one year after the cause of action arose. Each party waives its rights to a jury trial in any resulting litigation.\par
\par
=========================================================================\tab\par
\par
Software: \par
    slf4j  1.5.8\par
    slf4j-log4j 1.5.8\par
\par
\par
Copyright c 2004-2013 QOS.ch\par
\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free  of charge, to any person obtaining\par
a  copy  of this  software  and  associated  documentation files  (the\par
"Software"), to  deal in  the Software without  restriction, including\par
without limitation  the rights to  use, copy, modify,  merge, publish,\par
distribute,  sublicense, and/or sell  copies of  the Software,  and to\par
permit persons to whom the Software  is furnished to do so, subject to\par
the following conditions:\par
\par
The  above  copyright  notice  and  this permission  notice  shall  be\par
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE  SOFTWARE IS  PROVIDED  "AS  IS", WITHOUT  WARRANTY  OF ANY  KIND,\par
EXPRESS OR  IMPLIED, INCLUDING  BUT NOT LIMITED  TO THE  WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY,    FITNESS    FOR    A   PARTICULAR    PURPOSE    AND\par
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE\par
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION\par
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,  ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION\par
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
\par
=========================================================================\par
\par
Software: \par
    JSR 311 API  1.1.1\par
    JSTL 1.2\par
    jersey-core\tab  1.19\par
    jersey-server 1.19\par
    jersey-servlet 1.19\par
    javax.stax-api 1.0-2\par
\par
IBM is required to provide you, as the recipient of above software, with a \par
copy of the following license.\par
\par
COMMON DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBUTION LICENSE (CDDL) Version 1.0\par
\par
1. Definitions.\par
\par
1.1. "Contributor" means each individual or entity that\par
creates or contributes to the creation of Modifications.\par
\par
1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the\par
Original Software, prior Modifications used by a\par
Contributor (if any), and the Modifications made by that\par
particular Contributor.\par
\par
1.3. "Covered Software" means (a) the Original Software, or\par
(b) Modifications, or (c) the combination of files\par
containing Original Software with files containing\par
Modifications, in each case including portions thereof.\par
\par
1.4. "Executable" means the Covered Software in any form\par
other than Source Code.\par
\par
1.5. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity\par
that first makes Original Software available under this\par
License.\par
\par
1.6. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered\par
Software or portions thereof with code not governed by the\par
terms of this License.\par
\par
1.7. "License" means this document.\par
\par
1.8. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the\par
maximum extent possible, whether at the time of the initial\par
grant or subsequently acquired, any and all of the rights\par
conveyed herein.\par
\par
1.9. "Modifications" means the Source Code and Executable\par
form of any of the following:\par
\par
A. Any file that results from an addition to,\par
deletion from or modification of the contents of a\par
file containing Original Software or previous\par
Modifications;\par
\par
B. Any new file that contains any part of the\par
Original Software or previous Modification; or\par
\par
C. Any new file that is contributed or otherwise made\par
available under the terms of this License.\par
\par
1.10. "Original Software" means the Source Code and\par
Executable form of computer software code that is\par
originally released under this License.\par
\par
1.11. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned\par
or hereafter acquired, including without limitation,\par
method, process, and apparatus claims, in any patent\par
Licensable by grantor.\par
\par
1.12. "Source Code" means (a) the common form of computer\par
software code in which modifications are made and (b)\par
associated documentation included in or with such code.\par
\par
1.13. "You" (or "Your") means an individual or a legal\par
entity exercising rights under, and complying with all of\par
the terms of, this License. For legal entities, "You"\par
includes any entity which controls, is controlled by, or is\par
under common control with You. For purposes of this\par
definition, "control" means (a) the power, direct or\par
indirect, to cause the direction or management of such\par
entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership\par
of more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding shares\par
or beneficial ownership of such entity.\par
\par
2. License Grants.\par
\par
2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.\par
\par
Conditioned upon Your compliance with Section 3.1 below and\par
subject to third party intellectual property claims, the\par
Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide,\par
royalty-free, non-exclusive license:\par
\par
(a) under intellectual property rights (other than\par
patent or trademark) Licensable by Initial Developer,\par
to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform,\par
sublicense and distribute the Original Software (or\par
portions thereof), with or without Modifications,\par
and/or as part of a Larger Work; and\par
\par
(b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making,\par
using or selling of Original Software, to make, have\par
made, use, practice, sell, and offer for sale, and/or\par
otherwise dispose of the Original Software (or\par
portions thereof).\par
\par
(c) The licenses granted in Sections 2.1(a) and (b)\par
are effective on the date Initial Developer first\par
distributes or otherwise makes the Original Software\par
available to a third party under the terms of this\par
License.\par
\par
(d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent\par
license is granted: (1) for code that You delete from\par
the Original Software, or (2) for infringements\par
caused by: (i) the modification of the Original\par
Software, or (ii) the combination of the Original\par
Software with other software or devices.\par
\par
2.2. Contributor Grant.\par
\par
Conditioned upon Your compliance with Section 3.1 below and\par
subject to third party intellectual property claims, each\par
Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,\par
non-exclusive license:\par
\par
(a) under intellectual property rights (other than\par
patent or trademark) Licensable by Contributor to\par
use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense\par
and distribute the Modifications created by such\par
Contributor (or portions thereof), either on an\par
unmodified basis, with other Modifications, as\par
Covered Software and/or as part of a Larger Work; and\par
\par
(b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making,\par
using, or selling of Modifications made by that\par
Contributor either alone and/or in combination with\par
its Contributor Version (or portions of such\par
combination), to make, use, sell, offer for sale,\par
have made, and/or otherwise dispose of: (1)\par
Modifications made by that Contributor (or portions\par
thereof); and (2) the combination of Modifications\par
made by that Contributor with its Contributor Version\par
(or portions of such combination).\par
\par
(c) The licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and\par
2.2(b) are effective on the date Contributor first\par
distributes or otherwise makes the Modifications\par
available to a third party.\par
\par
(d) Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent\par
license is granted: (1) for any code that Contributor\par
has deleted from the Contributor Version; (2) for\par
infringements caused by: (i) third party\par
modifications of Contributor Version, or (ii) the\par
combination of Modifications made by that Contributor\par
with other software (except as part of the\par
Contributor Version) or other devices; or (3) under\par
Patent Claims infringed by Covered Software in the\par
absence of Modifications made by that Contributor.\par
\par
3. Distribution Obligations.\par
\par
3.1. Availability of Source Code.\par
\par
Any Covered Software that You distribute or otherwise make\par
available in Executable form must also be made available in\par
Source Code form and that Source Code form must be\par
distributed only under the terms of this License. You must\par
include a copy of this License with every copy of the\par
Source Code form of the Covered Software You distribute or\par
otherwise make available. You must inform recipients of any\par
such Covered Software in Executable form as to how they can\par
obtain such Covered Software in Source Code form in a\par
reasonable manner on or through a medium customarily used\par
for software exchange.\par
\par
3.2. Modifications.\par
\par
The Modifications that You create or to which You\par
contribute are governed by the terms of this License. You\par
represent that You believe Your Modifications are Your\par
original creation(s) and/or You have sufficient rights to\par
grant the rights conveyed by this License.\par
\par
3.3. Required Notices.\par
\par
You must include a notice in each of Your Modifications\par
that identifies You as the Contributor of the Modification.\par
You may not remove or alter any copyright, patent or\par
trademark notices contained within the Covered Software, or\par
any notices of licensing or any descriptive text giving\par
attribution to any Contributor or the Initial Developer.\par
\par
3.4. Application of Additional Terms.\par
\par
You may not offer or impose any terms on any Covered\par
Software in Source Code form that alters or restricts the\par
applicable version of this License or the recipients'\par
rights hereunder. You may choose to offer, and to charge a\par
fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or liability\par
obligations to one or more recipients of Covered Software.\par
However, you may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on\par
behalf of the Initial Developer or any Contributor. You\par
must make it absolutely clear that any such warranty,\par
support, indemnity or liability obligation is offered by\par
You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial\par
Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred\par
by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of\par
warranty, support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.\par
\par
3.5. Distribution of Executable Versions.\par
\par
You may distribute the Executable form of the Covered\par
Software under the terms of this License or under the terms\par
of a license of Your choice, which may contain terms\par
different from this License, provided that You are in\par
compliance with the terms of this License and that the\par
license for the Executable form does not attempt to limit\par
or alter the recipient's rights in the Source Code form\par
from the rights set forth in this License. If You\par
distribute the Covered Software in Executable form under a\par
different license, You must make it absolutely clear that\par
any terms which differ from this License are offered by You\par
alone, not by the Initial Developer or Contributor. You\par
hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer and every\par
Contributor for any liability incurred by the Initial\par
Developer or such Contributor as a result of any such terms\par
You offer.\par
\par
3.6. Larger Works.\par
\par
You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Software\par
with other code not governed by the terms of this License\par
and distribute the Larger Work as a single product. In such\par
a case, You must make sure the requirements of this License\par
are fulfilled for the Covered Software.\par
\par
4. Versions of the License.\par
\par
4.1. New Versions.\par
\par
Sun Microsystems, Inc. is the initial license steward and\par
may publish revised and/or new versions of this License\par
from time to time. Each version will be given a\par
distinguishing version number. Except as provided in\par
Section 4.3, no one other than the license steward has the\par
right to modify this License.\par
\par
4.2. Effect of New Versions.\par
\par
You may always continue to use, distribute or otherwise\par
make the Covered Software available under the terms of the\par
version of the License under which You originally received\par
the Covered Software. If the Initial Developer includes a\par
notice in the Original Software prohibiting it from being\par
distributed or otherwise made available under any\par
subsequent version of the License, You must distribute and\par
make the Covered Software available under the terms of the\par
version of the License under which You originally received\par
the Covered Software. Otherwise, You may also choose to\par
use, distribute or otherwise make the Covered Software\par
available under the terms of any subsequent version of the\par
License published by the license steward.\par
\par
4.3. Modified Versions.\par
\par
When You are an Initial Developer and You want to create a\par
new license for Your Original Software, You may create and\par
use a modified version of this License if You: (a) rename\par
the license and remove any references to the name of the\par
license steward (except to note that the license differs\par
from this License); and (b) otherwise make it clear that\par
the license contains terms which differ from this License.\par
\par
5. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.\par
\par
COVERED SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS"\par
BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,\par
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED\par
SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR\par
PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND\par
PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED SOFTWARE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY\par
COVERED SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT THE\par
INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE COST OF\par
ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER OF\par
WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF\par
ANY COVERED SOFTWARE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS\par
DISCLAIMER.\par
\par
6. TERMINATION.\par
\par
6.1. This License and the rights granted hereunder will\par
terminate automatically if You fail to comply with terms\par
herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of\par
becoming aware of the breach. Provisions which, by their\par
nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of\par
this License shall survive.\par
\par
6.2. If You assert a patent infringement claim (excluding\par
declaratory judgment actions) against Initial Developer or\par
a Contributor (the Initial Developer or Contributor against\par
whom You assert such claim is referred to as "Participant")\par
alleging that the Participant Software (meaning the\par
Contributor Version where the Participant is a Contributor\par
or the Original Software where the Participant is the\par
Initial Developer) directly or indirectly infringes any\par
patent, then any and all rights granted directly or\par
indirectly to You by such Participant, the Initial\par
Developer (if the Initial Developer is not the Participant)\par
and all Contributors under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this\par
License shall, upon 60 days notice from Participant\par
terminate prospectively and automatically at the expiration\par
of such 60 day notice period, unless if within such 60 day\par
period You withdraw Your claim with respect to the\par
Participant Software against such Participant either\par
unilaterally or pursuant to a written agreement with\par
Participant.\par
\par
6.3. In the event of termination under Sections 6.1 or 6.2\par
above, all end user licenses that have been validly granted\par
by You or any distributor hereunder prior to termination\par
(excluding licenses granted to You by any distributor)\par
shall survive termination.\par
\par
7. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.\par
\par
UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT\par
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE\par
INITIAL DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF\par
COVERED SOFTWARE, OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE\par
LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR\par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT\par
LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK\par
STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER\par
COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN\par
INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF\par
LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL\par
INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT\par
APPLICABLE LAW PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO\par
NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR\par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT\par
APPLY TO YOU.\par
\par
8. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.\par
\par
The Covered Software is a "commercial item," as that term is\par
defined in 48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial\par
computer software" (as that term is defined at 48 C.F.R. \'0f\par
252.227-7014(a)(1)) and "commercial computer software\par
documentation" as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept.\par
1995). Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1\par
through 227.7202-4 (June 1995), all U.S. Government End Users\par
acquire Covered Software with only those rights set forth herein.\par
This U.S. Government Rights clause is in lieu of, and supersedes,\par
any other FAR, DFAR, or other clause or provision that addresses\par
Government rights in computer software under this License.\par
\par
9. MISCELLANEOUS.\par
\par
This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject\par
matter hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be\par
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the\par
extent necessary to make it enforceable. This License shall be\par
governed by the law of the jurisdiction specified in a notice\par
contained within the Original Software (except to the extent\par
applicable law, if any, provides otherwise), excluding such\par
jurisdiction's conflict-of-law provisions. Any litigation\par
relating to this License shall be subject to the jurisdiction of\par
the courts located in the jurisdiction and venue specified in a\par
notice contained within the Original Software, with the losing\par
party responsible for costs, including, without limitation, court\par
costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses. The\par
application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the\par
International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. Any law or\par
regulation which provides that the language of a contract shall\par
be construed against the drafter shall not apply to this License.\par
You agree that You alone are responsible for compliance with the\par
United States export administration regulations (and the export\par
control laws and regulation of any other countries) when You use,\par
distribute or otherwise make available any Covered Software.\par
\par
10. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.\par
\par
As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is\par
responsible for claims and damages arising, directly or\par
indirectly, out of its utilization of rights under this License\par
and You agree to work with Initial Developer and Contributors to\par
distribute such responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing\par
herein is intended or shall be deemed to constitute any admission\par
of liability.   \par
\par
===============================================================================================================================================================================\par
End of Notices content for Knowledge Center Customer Install Edition 1.5.1\par
===============================================================================================================================================================================\par
\par
===============================================================================================================================================================================\par
Start of Notices content for IBM DB2 ESE 10.5.0.3\par
===============================================================================================================================================================================\par
\par
NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
The IBM license agreement and any applicable information on the web\par
download page for IBM products refers Licensee to this file for details\par
concerning notices applicable to code included in the products listed\par
above ("the Program").\par
\par
Notwithstanding the terms and conditions of any other agreement Licensee\par
may have with IBM or any of its related or affiliated entities\par
(collectively "IBM"), the third party code identified below is subject\par
to the terms and conditions of the IBM license agreement for the Program\par
and not the license terms that may be contained in the notices below.\par
The notices are provided for informational purposes.\par
\par
Please note: This Notices file may identify information that is not used\par
by, or that was not shipped with, the Program as Licensee installed it.\par
\par
IMPORTANT: IBM does not represent or warrant that the information in this\par
NOTICES file is accurate. Third party websites are independent of IBM and\par
IBM does not represent or warrant that the information on any third party\par
website referenced in this NOTICES file is accurate. IBM disclaims any\par
and all liability for errors and omissions or for any damages accruing\par
from the use of this NOTICES file or its contents, including without\par
limitation URLs or references to any third party websites.\par
\par
******************************************************************************************\par
*                                       IBM DB2 10.5                                     *\par
******************************************************************************************\par
\par
The Program includes the following components:\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
Boost 1.33.1\par
\par
Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization\par
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by\par
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,\par
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the\par
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to\par
do so, all subject to the following:\par
\par
The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including\par
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,\par
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and\par
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative\par
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by\par
a source language processor.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT\par
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,\par
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER\par
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
END OF BOOST CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
                                       \par
EXPAT CODE. The Program includes the following software which is\par
Copyright (c) 1998, 1999, 2000 Thai Open Source Software Center Ltd and Clark\par
Cooper\par
Copyright (c) 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 Expat maintainers.\par
\par
* Expat 1.95.1\par
* Expat 2.0.0\par
\par
IBM obtained the Expat Software under the terms and\par
conditions of the following license:\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining\par
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the\par
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including\par
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,\par
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to\par
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to\par
the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included\par
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,\par
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.\par
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY\par
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,\par
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE\par
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
END OF EXPAT CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
CUP PARSER GENERATOR. The Program includes CUP Parser \par
Generator ("JCUP") version 0.10k AND CUP Parser \par
Generator for Java 1.0 software which is Copyright 1996-1999 \par
by Scott Hudson, Frank Flannery and C. Scott Ananian. All rights \par
reserved. \par
\par
IBM obtained the JCUP Software under the terms and \par
conditions of the following license: \par
 \par
CUP Parser Generator Copyright Notice, License, and Disclaimer \par
 \par
Copyright 1996-1999 by Scott Hudson, Frank Flannery, C. Scott Ananian \par
 \par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its \par
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, \par
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that \par
both the copyright notice and this permission notice and warranty \par
disclaimer appear in supporting documentation, and that the names of \par
the authors or their employers not be used in advertising or publicity \par
pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written \par
prior permission. \par
 \par
The authors and their employers disclaim all warranties with regard to \par
this software, including all implied warranties of merchantability and \par
fitness. In no event shall the authors or their employers be liable \par
for any special, indirect or consequential damages or any damages \par
whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an \par
action of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out \par
of or in connection with the use or performance of this software. \par
\par
END OF CUP PARSER GENERATOR NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
APACHE CODE. The Program includes all or portions of the following software\par
developed by the Apache Software Foundation. IBM obtained the Apache Code under\par
the terms and conditions of the Apache License. This software consists of\par
voluntary contributions made by many individuals on behalf of the Apache\par
Software Foundation. For more information on the Apache Software Foundation,\par
please see http://www.apache.org:\par
\par
* Apache Commons Beanutils v1.6\par
* Apache Commons EL v1.0\par
* Apache Commons I/O v1.1\par
* Apache Commons Logging v1.0\par
* Apache Common-FileUpload 1.0\par
* Apache Common-Validator 1.0.2\par
* Apache Common-Collections 2.1\par
* Apache Common-Digestor 1.5\par
* Apache Common-BeanUtils 1.6\par
* Apache Geronimo v1.0\par
* Apache Jakarta Struts 1.1\par
* Apache Jasper-Compiler v5.0.27\par
* Apache Jasper-Runtime v5.0.27\par
* Apache Tomcat 4.1.30\par
* Apache Lucene 1.4.3\par
* Apache Lucene v2.2\par
* Apache Lucene HTML Parser 1.4.3 \par
* Apache ANT 1.6.5, 1.7\par
* Apache Commons-Logging 1.0.3\par
* Apache Derby v10.2\par
* Apache Struts v1.1\par
* Jetty v5.1.11\par
* Jetty v5.1.11 (org.mortbay.jaas.jar)\par
* MongoDB C Driver 0.6\par
* XML4C 5.8\par
* XSLT4C 1.12\par
\par
IBM is required to provide you, as the recipient of such software, with a copy\par
of the following license(s) from the Apache Software Foundation:\par
\par
/* ====================================================================\par
 * The Apache Software License, Version 1.1\par
 *\par
 * Copyright (c) 2000 The Apache Software Foundation.  All rights\par
 * reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 *\par
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in\par
 *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
 *    distribution.\par
 *\par
 * 3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution,\par
 *    if any, must include the following acknowledgment:\par
 *       "This product includes software developed by the\par
 *        Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/)."\par
 *    Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself,\par
 *    if and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear.\par
 *\par
 * 4. The names "Apache" and "Apache Software Foundation" must\par
 *    not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this\par
 *    software without prior written permission. For written\par
 *    permission, please contact apache@apache.org.\par
 *\par
 * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "Apache",\par
 *    nor may "Apache" appear in their name, without prior written\par
 *    permission of the Apache Software Foundation.\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED\par
 * WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES\par
 * OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
 * DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE APACHE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION OR\par
 * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,\par
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
 * LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF\par
 * USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND\par
 * ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,\par
 * OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT\par
 * OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
 * SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 * ====================================================================\par
 *\par
 * This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many\par
 * individuals on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation.  For more\par
 * information on the Apache Software Foundation, please see\par
 * <http://www.apache.org/>.\par
 *\par
 * Portions of this software are based upon public domain software\par
 * originally written at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications,\par
 * University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.\par
 */\par
\par
 \par
Apache License\par
Version 2.0, January 2004\par
http://www.apache.org/licenses/\par
\par
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION\par
\par
1. Definitions.\par
\par
"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and\par
distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.\par
\par
"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright\par
owner that is granting the License.\par
\par
"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities\par
that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity.\par
For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or\par
indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by\par
contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the\par
outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.\par
\par
"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising\par
permissions granted by this License.\par
\par
"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including\par
but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and configuration\par
files.\par
\par
"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or\par
translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code,\par
generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.\par
\par
"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made\par
available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included\par
in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix below).\par
\par
"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that\par
is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions,\par
annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an\par
original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works\par
shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by\par
name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.\par
\par
"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version\par
of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works\par
thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work\par
by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit\par
on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition,\par
"submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent\par
to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to\par
communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and\par
issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for\par
the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication\par
that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright\par
owner as "Not a Contribution."\par
\par
"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf\par
of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently\par
incorporated within the Work.\par
\par
2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this\par
License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide,\par
non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to\par
reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform,\par
sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or\par
Object form.\par
\par
3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License,\par
each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive,\par
no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent\par
license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise\par
transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims\par
licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their\par
Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work\par
to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation\par
against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit)\par
alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work\par
constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses\par
granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date\par
such litigation is filed.\par
\par
4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or\par
Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in\par
Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:\par
\par
   1. You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy\par
of this License; and\par
\par
   2. You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that\par
You changed the files; and\par
\par
   3. You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You\par
distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the\par
Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part\par
of the Derivative Works; and\par
\par
   4. If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution,\par
then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of\par
the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those\par
notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one\par
of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the\par
Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along\par
with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative\par
Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of\par
the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the\par
License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that\par
You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work,\par
provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as\par
modifying the License.\par
\par
You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide\par
additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or\par
distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole,\par
provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies\par
with the conditions stated in this License.\par
\par
5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any\par
Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the\par
Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any\par
additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall\par
supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have\par
executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.\par
\par
6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names,\par
trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required\par
for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and\par
reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.\par
\par
7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in\par
writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its\par
Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY\par
KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties\par
or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A\par
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the\par
appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks\par
associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.\par
\par
8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in\par
tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by\par
applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in\par
writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any\par
direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character\par
arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the\par
Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage,\par
computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or\par
losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such\par
damages.\par
\par
9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work or\par
Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for,\par
acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations\par
and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such\par
obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole\par
responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to\par
indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred\par
by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any\par
such warranty or additional liability.\par
\par
END OF APACHE CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
EPL CODE. The Program includes all or portions of the following \par
software which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the \par
Common Public License ("CPL Code") or the Eclipse Public License ("EPL \par
Code"). \par
Eclipse Modeling Framework 1.1.1\par
IBM Eclipse Help System 3.4.2\par
* Ant 1.7 and 1.65 \par
- DOM \par
- SAX \par
* Apache Commons EL 1.0 \par
* Apache jasper 2 from Tomcat 5.5.17\par
* Commons Logging 1.0.4\par
* Independent JPEG Group's JPEG software release 6b \par
* Jakarta Commons Collections\par
* Java Servlet API 2.5 (servlet-api.jar from Tomcat 5.5.17) \par
* JavaServer Pages API 2.0 (jsp-api.jar from Tomcat 5.5.17) \par
* Jetty 5.1.14 (org.mortbay.jetty.jar)\par
* Lucene 1.9.1 and HTML Parser \par
* Mozilla Binding \par
* OSGi Materials \par
* PuTTY 0.58 (derivative work) \par
* W3C DTDs  \par
\par
You may download the source version of these components at:\par
http://www.eclipse.org.\par
\par
Eclipse Modeling Framework 1.1.1\par
\par
Components of Eclipse Modeling Framework were obtained from the Eclipse Foundation (herein collectively referred to as "Eclipse Code"). Notices and important information, including instructions for obtaining source code, for the Eclipse Code may be found in associated "about.html" files ("About Files") that accompany the Eclipse Code. These About Files are provided for informational purposes only, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary therein, your use of such Eclipse Code shall be governed by the terms of the IBM end user license agreement.\par
\par
IBM Eclipse Help System 3.4.2\par
\par
The following subset of open source software was obtained from the Eclipse Foundation: Eclipse Help System, Jetty, Lucene, Lucene HTML Parser, MX4J (herein collectively referred to as "Eclipse Code"). Notices and important information, including instructions for obtaining source code, for the Eclipse Code may be found in associated \'c6\rquote ?oabout.html\'c6\rquote ??files (\'c6\rquote ?oAbout Files\'c6\rquote ??) that accompany the Eclipse Code. These About Files are provided for informational purposes only, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary therein, your use of such Eclipse Code shall be governed by the terms of the IBM end-user license agreement.\par
\par
\par
DOM\par
This license came from:\par
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/copyright-software-19980720\par
W3C(R) SOFTWARE NOTICE AND LICENSE\par
Copyright (C) 1994-2001 World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). All Rights Reserved.\par
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/\par
This W3C work (including software, documents, or other related\par
items) is being provided by the copyright holders under the\par
following license. By obtaining, using and/or copying this work,\par
you (the licensee) agree that you have read, understood, and will\par
comply with the following terms and conditions:\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software\par
and its documentation, with or without modification, for any\par
purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that\par
you include the following on ALL copies of the software and\par
documentation or portions thereof, including modifications, that\par
you make:\par
The full text of this NOTICE in a location viewable to users of\par
the redistributed or derivative work.\par
Any pre-existing intellectual property disclaimers, notices, or\par
terms and conditions. If none exist, a short notice of the\par
following form (hypertext is preferred, text is permitted) should\par
be used within the body of any redistributed or derivative code:\par
"Copyright (C) [$date-of-software] World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of\par
Technology, Institut National de\par
Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). All Rights Reserved.\par
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/"\par
Notice of any changes or modifications to the W3C files,\par
including the date changes were made. (We recommend you provide \par
URIs to the location from which the code is derived.)\par
THIS SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND\par
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE\par
USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD\par
PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.\par
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,\par
SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE\par
SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION.\par
The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in\par
advertising or publicity pertaining to the software without\par
specific, written prior permission. Title to copyright in this\par
software and any associated documentation will at all times remain\par
with copyright holders.\par
____________________________________\par
This formulation of W3C's notice and license became active on\par
August 14 1998 so as to improve compatibility with GPL. This\par
version ensures that W3C software licensing terms are no more\par
restrictive than GPL and consequently W3C software may be\par
distributed in GPL packages. See the older formulation for the\par
policy prior to this date. Please see our Copyright FAQ for common \par
questions about using materials from\par
our site, including specific terms and conditions for packages like\par
libwww, Amaya, and Jigsaw. \par
Other questions about this notice can be\par
directed to site-policy@w3.org.\par
\par
SAX\par
This license came from: http://www.megginson.com/SAX/copying.html\par
  However please note future versions of SAX may be covered \par
  under http://saxproject.org/?selected=pd\par
\par
\par
This page is now out of date -- see the new SAX site at \par
http://www.saxproject.org/ for more up-to-date\par
releases and other information. Please change your bookmarks.\par
\par
\par
SAX2 is Free!\par
\par
I hereby abandon any property rights to SAX 2.0 (the Simple API for\par
XML), and release all of the SAX 2.0 source code, compiled code, and\par
\par
documentation contained in this distribution into the Public Domain.\par
SAX comes with NO WARRANTY or guarantee of fitness for any\par
purpose.\par
\par
David Megginson, david@megginson.com\par
2000-05-05\par
\par
\par
Independent JPEG Group's JPEG software release 6b\par
\par
The Independent JPEG Group's JPEG software\par
==========================================\par
\par
README for release 6b of 27-Mar-1998\par
====================================\par
\par
This distribution contains the sixth public release of the Independent JPEG\par
Group's free JPEG software.  You are welcome to redistribute this software and\par
to use it for any purpose, subject to the conditions under LEGAL ISSUES, below.\par
\par
Serious users of this software (particularly those incorporating it into\par
larger programs) should contact IJG at jpeg-info@uunet.uu.net to be added to\par
our electronic mailing list.  Mailing list members are notified of updates\par
and have a chance to participate in technical discussions, etc.\par
\par
This software is the work of Tom Lane, Philip Gladstone, Jim Boucher,\par
Lee Crocker, Julian Minguillon, Luis Ortiz, George Phillips, Davide Rossi,\par
Guido Vollbeding, Ge' Weijers, and other members of the Independent JPEG\par
Group.\par
\par
IJG is not affiliated with the official ISO JPEG standards committee.\par
\par
\par
DOCUMENTATION ROADMAP\par
=====================\par
\par
This file contains the following sections:\par
\par
OVERVIEW            General description of JPEG and the IJG software.\par
LEGAL ISSUES        Copyright, lack of warranty, terms of distribution.\par
REFERENCES          Where to learn more about JPEG.\par
ARCHIVE LOCATIONS   Where to find newer versions of this software.\par
RELATED SOFTWARE    Other stuff you should get.\par
FILE FORMAT WARS    Software *not* to get.\par
TO DO               Plans for future IJG releases.\par
\par
Other documentation files in the distribution are:\par
\par
User documentation:\par
  install.doc       How to configure and install the IJG software.\par
  usage.doc         Usage instructions for cjpeg, djpeg, jpegtran,\par
                    rdjpgcom, and wrjpgcom.\par
  *.1               Unix-style man pages for programs (same info as usage.doc).\par
  wizard.doc        Advanced usage instructions for JPEG wizards only.\par
  change.log        Version-to-version change highlights.\par
Programmer and internal documentation:\par
  libjpeg.doc       How to use the JPEG library in your own programs.\par
  example.c         Sample code for calling the JPEG library.\par
  structure.doc     Overview of the JPEG library's internal structure.\par
  filelist.doc      Road map of IJG files.\par
  coderules.doc     Coding style rules --- please read if you contribute code.\par
\par
Please read at least the files install.doc and usage.doc.  Useful information\par
can also be found in the JPEG FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) article.  See\par
ARCHIVE LOCATIONS below to find out where to obtain the FAQ article.\par
\par
If you want to understand how the JPEG code works, we suggest reading one or\par
more of the REFERENCES, then looking at the documentation files (in roughly\par
the order listed) before diving into the code.\par
\par
\par
OVERVIEW\par
========\par
\par
This package contains C software to implement JPEG image compression and\par
decompression.  JPEG (pronounced "jay-peg") is a standardized compression\par
method for full-color and gray-scale images.  JPEG is intended for compressing\par
"real-world" scenes; line drawings, cartoons and other non-realistic images\par
are not its strong suit.  JPEG is lossy, meaning that the output image is not\par
exactly identical to the input image.  Hence you must not use JPEG if you\par
have to have identical output bits.  However, on typical photographic images,\par
very good compression levels can be obtained with no visible change, and\par
remarkably high compression levels are possible if you can tolerate a\par
low-quality image.  For more details, see the references, or just experiment\par
with various compression settings.\par
\par
This software implements JPEG baseline, extended-sequential, and progressive\par
compression processes.  Provision is made for supporting all variants of these\par
processes, although some uncommon parameter settings aren't implemented yet.\par
For legal reasons, we are not distributing code for the arithmetic-coding\par
variants of JPEG; see LEGAL ISSUES.  We have made no provision for supporting\par
the hierarchical or lossless processes defined in the standard.\par
\par
We provide a set of library routines for reading and writing JPEG image files,\par
plus two sample applications "cjpeg" and "djpeg", which use the library to\par
perform conversion between JPEG and some other popular image file formats.\par
The library is intended to be reused in other applications.\par
\par
In order to support file conversion and viewing software, we have included\par
considerable functionality beyond the bare JPEG coding/decoding capability;\par
for example, the color quantization modules are not strictly part of JPEG\par
decoding, but they are essential for output to colormapped file formats or\par
colormapped displays.  These extra functions can be compiled out of the\par
library if not required for a particular application.  We have also included\par
"jpegtran", a utility for lossless transcoding between different JPEG\par
processes, and "rdjpgcom" and "wrjpgcom", two simple applications for\par
inserting and extracting textual comments in JFIF files.\par
\par
The emphasis in designing this software has been on achieving portability and\par
flexibility, while also making it fast enough to be useful.  In particular,\par
the software is not intended to be read as a tutorial on JPEG.  (See the\par
REFERENCES section for introductory material.)  Rather, it is intended to\par
be reliable, portable, industrial-strength code.  We do not claim to have\par
achieved that goal in every aspect of the software, but we strive for it.\par
\par
We welcome the use of this software as a component of commercial products.\par
No royalty is required, but we do ask for an acknowledgement in product\par
documentation, as described under LEGAL ISSUES.\par
\par
\par
LEGAL ISSUES\par
============\par
\par
In plain English:\par
\par
1. We don't promise that this software works.  (But if you find any bugs,\par
   please let us know!)\par
2. You can use this software for whatever you want.  You don't have to pay us.\par
3. You may not pretend that you wrote this software.  If you use it in a\par
   program, you must acknowledge somewhere in your documentation that\par
   you've used the IJG code.\par
\par
In legalese:\par
\par
The authors make NO WARRANTY or representation, either express or implied,\par
with respect to this software, its quality, accuracy, merchantability, or\par
fitness for a particular purpose.  This software is provided "AS IS", and you,\par
its user, assume the entire risk as to its quality and accuracy.\par
\par
This software is copyright (C) 1991-1998, Thomas G. Lane.\par
All Rights Reserved except as specified below.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this\par
software (or portions thereof) for any purpose, without fee, subject to these\par
conditions:\par
(1) If any part of the source code for this software is distributed, then this\par
README file must be included, with this copyright and no-warranty notice\par
unaltered; and any additions, deletions, or changes to the original files\par
must be clearly indicated in accompanying documentation.\par
(2) If only executable code is distributed, then the accompanying\par
documentation must state that "this software is based in part on the work of\par
the Independent JPEG Group".\par
(3) Permission for use of this software is granted only if the user accepts\par
full responsibility for any undesirable consequences; the authors accept\par
NO LIABILITY for damages of any kind.\par
\par
These conditions apply to any software derived from or based on the IJG code,\par
not just to the unmodified library.  If you use our work, you ought to\par
acknowledge us.\par
\par
Permission is NOT granted for the use of any IJG author's name or company name\par
in advertising or publicity relating to this software or products derived from\par
it.  This software may be referred to only as "the Independent JPEG Group's\par
software".\par
\par
We specifically permit and encourage the use of this software as the basis of\par
commercial products, provided that all warranty or liability claims are\par
assumed by the product vendor.\par
\par
\par
ansi2knr.c is included in this distribution by permission of L. Peter Deutsch,\par
sole proprietor of its copyright holder, Aladdin Enterprises of Menlo Park, CA.\par
ansi2knr.c is NOT covered by the above copyright and conditions, but instead\par
by the usual distribution terms of the Free Software Foundation; principally,\par
that you must include source code if you redistribute it.  (See the file\par
ansi2knr.c for full details.)  However, since ansi2knr.c is not needed as part\par
of any program generated from the IJG code, this does not limit you more than\par
the foregoing paragraphs do.\par
\par
The Unix configuration script "configure" was produced with GNU Autoconf.\par
It is copyright by the Free Software Foundation but is freely distributable.\par
The same holds for its supporting scripts (config.guess, config.sub,\par
ltconfig, ltmain.sh).  Another support script, install-sh, is copyright\par
by M.I.T. but is also freely distributable.\par
\par
It appears that the arithmetic coding option of the JPEG spec is covered by\par
patents owned by IBM, AT&T, and Mitsubishi.  Hence arithmetic coding cannot\par
legally be used without obtaining one or more licenses.  For this reason,\par
support for arithmetic coding has been removed from the free JPEG software.\par
(Since arithmetic coding provides only a marginal gain over the unpatented\par
Huffman mode, it is unlikely that very many implementations will support it.)\par
So far as we are aware, there are no patent restrictions on the remaining\par
code.\par
\par
The IJG distribution formerly included code to read and write GIF files.\par
To avoid entanglement with the Unisys LZW patent, GIF reading support has\par
been removed altogether, and the GIF writer has been simplified to produce\par
"uncompressed GIFs".  This technique does not use the LZW algorithm; the\par
resulting GIF files are larger than usual, but are readable by all standard\par
GIF decoders.\par
\par
We are required to state that\par
    "The Graphics Interchange Format(c) is the Copyright property of\par
    CompuServe Incorporated.  GIF(sm) is a Service Mark property of\par
    CompuServe Incorporated."\par
\par
\par
REFERENCES\par
==========\par
\par
We highly recommend reading one or more of these references before trying to\par
understand the innards of the JPEG software.\par
\par
The best short technical introduction to the JPEG compression algorithm is\par
 Wallace, Gregory K.  "The JPEG Still Picture Compression Standard",\par
 Communications of the ACM, April 1991 (vol. 34 no. 4), pp. 30-44.\par
(Adjacent articles in that issue discuss MPEG motion picture compression,\par
applications of JPEG, and related topics.)  If you don't have the CACM issue\par
handy, a PostScript file containing a revised version of Wallace's article is\par
available at ftp://ftp.uu.net/graphics/jpeg/wallace.ps.gz.  The file (actually\par
a preprint for an article that appeared in IEEE Trans. Consumer Electronics)\par
omits the sample images that appeared in CACM, but it includes corrections\par
and some added material.  Note: the Wallace article is copyright ACM and IEEE,\par
and it may not be used for commercial purposes.\par
\par
A somewhat less technical, more leisurely introduction to JPEG can be found in\par
"The Data Compression Book" by Mark Nelson and Jean-loup Gailly, published by\par
M&T Books (New York), 2nd ed. 1996, ISBN 1-55851-434-1.  This book provides\par
good explanations and example C code for a multitude of compression methods\par
including JPEG.  It is an excellent source if you are comfortable reading C\par
code but don't know much about data compression in general.  The book's JPEG\par
sample code is far from industrial-strength, but when you are ready to look\par
at a full implementation, you've got one here...\par
\par
The best full description of JPEG is the textbook "JPEG Still Image Data\par
Compression Standard" by William B. Pennebaker and Joan L. Mitchell, published\par
by Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1993, ISBN 0-442-01272-1.  Price US$59.95, 638 pp.\par
The book includes the complete text of the ISO JPEG standards (DIS 10918-1\par
and draft DIS 10918-2).  This is by far the most complete exposition of JPEG\par
in existence, and we highly recommend it.\par
\par
The JPEG standard itself is not available electronically; you must order a\par
paper copy through ISO or ITU.  (Unless you feel a need to own a certified\par
official copy, we recommend buying the Pennebaker and Mitchell book instead;\par
it's much cheaper and includes a great deal of useful explanatory material.)\par
In the USA, copies of the standard may be ordered from ANSI Sales at (212)\par
642-4900, or from Global Engineering Documents at (800) 854-7179.  (ANSI\par
doesn't take credit card orders, but Global does.)  It's not cheap: as of\par
1992, ANSI was charging $95 for Part 1 and $47 for Part 2, plus 7%\par
shipping/handling.  The standard is divided into two parts, Part 1 being the\par
actual specification, while Part 2 covers compliance testing methods.  Part 1\par
is titled "Digital Compression and Coding of Continuous-tone Still Images,\par
Part 1: Requirements and guidelines" and has document numbers ISO/IEC IS\par
10918-1, ITU-T T.81.  Part 2 is titled "Digital Compression and Coding of\par
Continuous-tone Still Images, Part 2: Compliance testing" and has document\par
numbers ISO/IEC IS 10918-2, ITU-T T.83.\par
\par
Some extensions to the original JPEG standard are defined in JPEG Part 3,\par
a newer ISO standard numbered ISO/IEC IS 10918-3 and ITU-T T.84.  IJG\par
currently does not support any Part 3 extensions.\par
\par
The JPEG standard does not specify all details of an interchangeable file\par
format.  For the omitted details we follow the "JFIF" conventions, revision\par
1.02.  A copy of the JFIF spec is available from:\par
 Literature Department\par
 C-Cube Microsystems, Inc.\par
 1778 McCarthy Blvd.\par
 Milpitas, CA 95035\par
 phone (408) 944-6300,  fax (408) 944-6314\par
A PostScript version of this document is available by FTP at\par
ftp://ftp.uu.net/graphics/jpeg/jfif.ps.gz.  There is also a plain text\par
version at ftp://ftp.uu.net/graphics/jpeg/jfif.txt.gz, but it is missing\par
the figures.\par
\par
The TIFF 6.0 file format specification can be obtained by FTP from\par
ftp://ftp.sgi.com/graphics/tiff/TIFF6.ps.gz.  The JPEG incorporation scheme\par
found in the TIFF 6.0 spec of 3-June-92 has a number of serious problems.\par
IJG does not recommend use of the TIFF 6.0 design (TIFF Compression tag 6).\par
Instead, we recommend the JPEG design proposed by TIFF Technical Note #2\par
(Compression tag 7).  Copies of this Note can be obtained from ftp.sgi.com or\par
from ftp://ftp.uu.net/graphics/jpeg/.  It is expected that the next revision\par
of the TIFF spec will replace the 6.0 JPEG design with the Note's design.\par
Although IJG's own code does not support TIFF/JPEG, the free libtiff library\par
uses our library to implement TIFF/JPEG per the Note.  libtiff is available\par
from ftp://ftp.sgi.com/graphics/tiff/.\par
\par
\par
ARCHIVE LOCATIONS\par
=================\par
\par
The "official" archive site for this software is ftp.uu.net (Internet\par
address 192.48.96.9).  The most recent released version can always be found\par
there in directory graphics/jpeg.  This particular version will be archived\par
as ftp://ftp.uu.net/graphics/jpeg/jpegsrc.v6b.tar.gz.  If you don't have\par
direct Internet access, UUNET's archives are also available via UUCP; contact\par
help@uunet.uu.net for information on retrieving files that way.\par
\par
Numerous Internet sites maintain copies of the UUNET files.  However, only\par
ftp.uu.net is guaranteed to have the latest official version.\par
\par
You can also obtain this software in DOS-compatible "zip" archive format from\par
the SimTel archives (ftp://ftp.simtel.net/pub/simtelnet/msdos/graphics/), or\par
on CompuServe in the Graphics Support forum (GO CIS:GRAPHSUP), library 12\par
"JPEG Tools".  Again, these versions may sometimes lag behind the ftp.uu.net\par
release.\par
\par
The JPEG FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) article is a useful source of\par
general information about JPEG.  It is updated constantly and therefore is\par
not included in this distribution.  The FAQ is posted every two weeks to\par
Usenet newsgroups comp.graphics.misc, news.answers, and other groups.\par
It is available on the World Wide Web at http://www.faqs.org/faqs/jpeg-faq/\par
and other news.answers archive sites, including the official news.answers\par
archive at rtfm.mit.edu: ftp://rtfm.mit.edu/pub/usenet/news.answers/jpeg-faq/.\par
If you don't have Web or FTP access, send e-mail to mail-server@rtfm.mit.edu\par
with body\par
 send usenet/news.answers/jpeg-faq/part1\par
 send usenet/news.answers/jpeg-faq/part2\par
\par
\par
RELATED SOFTWARE\par
================\par
\par
Numerous viewing and image manipulation programs now support JPEG.  (Quite a\par
few of them use this library to do so.)  The JPEG FAQ described above lists\par
some of the more popular free and shareware viewers, and tells where to\par
obtain them on Internet.\par
\par
If you are on a Unix machine, we highly recommend Jef Poskanzer's free\par
PBMPLUS software, which provides many useful operations on PPM-format image\par
files.  In particular, it can convert PPM images to and from a wide range of\par
other formats, thus making cjpeg/djpeg considerably more useful.  The latest\par
version is distributed by the NetPBM group, and is available from numerous\par
sites, notably ftp://wuarchive.wustl.edu/graphics/graphics/packages/NetPBM/.\par
Unfortunately PBMPLUS/NETPBM is not nearly as portable as the IJG software is;\par
you are likely to have difficulty making it work on any non-Unix machine.\par
\par
A different free JPEG implementation, written by the PVRG group at Stanford,\par
is available from ftp://havefun.stanford.edu/pub/jpeg/.  This program\par
is designed for research and experimentation rather than production use;\par
it is slower, harder to use, and less portable than the IJG code, but it\par
is easier to read and modify.  Also, the PVRG code supports lossless JPEG,\par
which we do not.  (On the other hand, it doesn't do progressive JPEG.)\par
\par
\par
FILE FORMAT WARS\par
================\par
\par
Some JPEG programs produce files that are not compatible with our library.\par
The root of the problem is that the ISO JPEG committee failed to specify a\par
concrete file format.  Some vendors "filled in the blanks" on their own,\par
creating proprietary formats that no one else could read.  (For example, none\par
of the early commercial JPEG implementations for the Macintosh were able to\par
exchange compressed files.)\par
\par
The file format we have adopted is called JFIF (see REFERENCES).  This format\par
has been agreed to by a number of major commercial JPEG vendors, and it has\par
become the de facto standard.  JFIF is a minimal or "low end" representation.\par
We recommend the use of TIFF/JPEG (TIFF revision 6.0 as modified by TIFF\par
Technical Note #2) for "high end" applications that need to record a lot of\par
additional data about an image.  TIFF/JPEG is fairly new and not yet widely\par
supported, unfortunately.\par
\par
The upcoming JPEG Part 3 standard defines a file format called SPIFF.\par
SPIFF is interoperable with JFIF, in the sense that most JFIF decoders should\par
be able to read the most common variant of SPIFF.  SPIFF has some technical\par
advantages over JFIF, but its major claim to fame is simply that it is an\par
official standard rather than an informal one.  At this point it is unclear\par
whether SPIFF will supersede JFIF or whether JFIF will remain the de-facto\par
standard.  IJG intends to support SPIFF once the standard is frozen, but we\par
have not decided whether it should become our default output format or not.\par
(In any case, our decoder will remain capable of reading JFIF indefinitely.)\par
\par
Various proprietary file formats incorporating JPEG compression also exist.\par
We have little or no sympathy for the existence of these formats.  Indeed,\par
one of the original reasons for developing this free software was to help\par
force convergence on common, open format standards for JPEG files.  Don't\par
use a proprietary file format!\par
\par
\par
TO DO\par
=====\par
\par
The major thrust for v7 will probably be improvement of visual quality.\par
The current method for scaling the quantization tables is known not to be\par
very good at low Q values.  We also intend to investigate block boundary\par
smoothing, "poor man's variable quantization", and other means of improving\par
quality-vs-file-size performance without sacrificing compatibility.\par
\par
In future versions, we are considering supporting some of the upcoming JPEG\par
Part 3 extensions --- principally, variable quantization and the SPIFF file\par
format.\par
\par
As always, speeding things up is of great interest.\par
\par
Please send bug reports, offers of help, etc. to jpeg-info@uunet.uu.net.\par
\par
PuTTY 0.58 (derivative work)\par
Portions of the SWT class org/eclipse/swt/internal/image/PngDeflater are based on PuTTY's sshzlib.c. PuTTY is made available by Mozilla.org. Use of PuTTY is governed by the terms and conditions of the the following MIT-style license: \par
PuTTY is copyright 1997-2007 Simon Tatham. \par
Portions copyright Robert de Bath, Joris van Rantwijk, Delian Delchev, Andreas Schultz, Jeroen Massar, Wez Furlong, Nicolas Barry, Justin Bradford, Ben Harris, Malcolm Smith, Ahmad Khalifa, Markus Kuhn, and CORE SDI S.A. \par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions: \par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. \par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL SIMON TATHAM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE. \par
A copy of the license is also available at http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/licence.html.\par
\par
W3C DTDs  \par
W3C(R) SOFTWARE NOTICE AND LICENSE\par
Copyright (C) 1994-2002 World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). All Rights Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/\par
This W3C work (including software, documents, or other related items) is being provided by the copyright holders under the following license. By obtaining, using and/or copying this work, you (the licensee) agree that you have read, understood, and will comply with the following terms and conditions:\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation, with or without modification,  for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies of the software and documentation or portions thereof, including modifications, that you make:\par
1. The full text of this NOTICE in a location viewable to users of the redistributed or derivative work. \par
2. Any pre-existing intellectual property disclaimers, notices, or terms and conditions. If none exist, a short notice of the following form (hypertext is preferred, text is permitted) should be used within the body of any redistributed or derivative code: "Copyright (C) [$date-of-software] World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). All Rights Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/" \par
3. Notice of any changes or modifications to the W3C files, including the date changes were made. (We recommend you provide URIs to the location from which the code is derived.) \par
THIS SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER IGHTS.\par
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION.\par
The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to the software without specific, written prior permission. Title to copyright in this software and any associated documentation will at all times remain with copyright holders.\par
____________________________________\par
This formulation of W3C's notice and license became active on August 14 1998 so as to improve compatibility with GPL. This version ensures that W3C software licensing terms are no more restrictive than GPL and consequently W3C software may be distributed in GPL packages. See the older formulation for the policy prior to this date. Please see our Copyright FAQ for common questions about using materials from our site, including specific terms and conditions for packages like libwww, Amaya, and Jigsaw. Other questions about this notice can be directed to site-policy@w3.org.\par
\par
\par
END OF EPL CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
ICU CODE: The Program includes all or portions of the following software which IBM\par
obtained under the terms and conditions of the following license(s):\par
\par
* ICU4C 4.0\par
* ICU4C 3.8.1\par
* ICU4C 3.2, 3.2.1\par
* ICU4J 3.2, 3.4, 3.4.4\par
\par
ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1995-2010 International Business Machines Corporation and others\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a\par
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the\par
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including\par
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,\par
distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons\par
to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above\par
copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of\par
the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this\par
permission notice appear in supporting documentation.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS\par
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT\par
OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR\par
HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL\par
INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING\par
FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,\par
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION\par
WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be\par
used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use\par
or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization\par
of the copyright holder.\par
\par
All trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned herein are the property of\par
their respective owners.\par
\par
UNICODE, INC. LICENSE AGREEMENT - DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE\par
\par
Unicode Data Files include all data files under the directories\par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and\par
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/.\par
Unicode Software includes any source code published in the Unicode Standard or under the directories\par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and\par
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/.\par
\par
NOTICE TO USER: Carefully read the following legal agreement. BY DOWNLOADING,\par
INSTALLING, COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING UNICODE INC.'S DATA FILES ("DATA FILES"),\par
AND/OR SOFTWARE ("SOFTWARE"), YOU UNEQUIVOCALLY ACCEPT, AND AGREE TO BE BOUND\par
BY, ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE,\par
DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, DISTRIBUTE OR USE THE DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.\par
\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1991-2009 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved. Distributed under the\par
Terms of Use in http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of\par
the Unicode data files and associated documentation (the "Data Files") or\par
Unicode software and associated documentation (the "Software") to deal in the\par
Data Files or Software without restriction, including without limitation the\par
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of\par
the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the Data Files or\par
Software are furnished to do so, provided that (a) the above copyright notice(s)\par
and this permission notice appear in all copies of the Data Files or Software,\par
(b) both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in\par
associated documentation, and (c) there is clear notice in each modified Data\par
File or in the Software as well as in the documentation associated with the Data\par
File(s) or Software that the data or software has been modified.\par
\par
THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF \par
ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE \par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND \par
NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT \par
HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY \par
SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER \par
RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF \par
CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN \par
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA FILES OR\par
SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be\par
used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in\par
these Data Files or Software without prior written authorization of the\par
copyright holder.\par
\par
END OF ICU CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
Jline0.9.93\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2002-2006, Marc Prud'hommeaux <mwp1@cornell.edu>\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or\par
without modification, are permitted provided that the following\par
conditions are met:\par
\par
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer\par
in the documentation and/or other materials provided with\par
the distribution.\par
\par
Neither the name of JLine nor the names of its contributors\par
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this\par
software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS\par
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING,\par
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY\par
AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO\par
EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY,\par
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,\par
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,\par
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED\par
AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT\par
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING\par
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED\par
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
PCRE LIBRARY\par
\par
The Program includes PCRE v. 7.6, which was obtained by IBM under the following terms and conditions:\par
\par
\par
PCRE LICENCE\par
------------\par
\par
PCRE is a library of functions to support regular expressions whose syntax\par
and semantics are as close as possible to those of the Perl 5 language.\par
\par
Release 7 of PCRE is distributed under the terms of the "BSD" licence, as\par
specified below. The documentation for PCRE, supplied in the "doc"\par
directory, is distributed under the same terms as the software itself.\par
\par
The basic library functions are written in C and are freestanding. Also\par
included in the distribution is a set of C++ wrapper functions.\par
\par
\par
THE BASIC LIBRARY FUNCTIONS\par
---------------------------\par
\par
Written by:       Philip Hazel\par
Email local part: ph10\par
Email domain:     cam.ac.uk\par
\par
University of Cambridge Computing Service,\par
Cambridge, England.\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1997-2008 University of Cambridge\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
\par
THE C++ WRAPPER FUNCTIONS\par
-------------------------\par
\par
Contributed by:   Google Inc.\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2007-2008, Google Inc.\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
THE "BSD" LICENCE\par
-----------------\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\par
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
    * Neither the name of the University of Cambridge nor the name of Google\par
      Inc. nor the names of their contributors may be used to endorse or\par
      promote products derived from this software without specific prior\par
      written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"\par
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE\par
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR\par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF\par
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS\par
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN\par
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)\par
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE\par
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
MX4J: The Program includes MX4J software and IBM obtained the MX4J Software\par
under the terms and conditions of the following license:\par
\par
The MX4J License, Version 1.1.1\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2001 MX4J. All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
are met:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in\par
 the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
 distribution.\par
\par
3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution,\par
 if any, must include the following acknowledgment:\par
 "This product includes software developed by the\par
 MX4J project."\par
 Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself,\par
 if and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear.\par
\par
4. The names "MX4J" and "mx4j" must not be used to endorse or promote\par
 products derived from this software without prior written\par
 permission. For written permission, please contact\par
 Simone Bordet or\par
 Carlos Quiroz\par
\par
5. Products derived from this software may not be called "MX4J",\par
 nor may "MX4J" appear in their name, without prior written\par
 permission of Simone Bordet.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,\par
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY\par
AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL \par
THE CHRIS SEGUIN OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, \par
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT \par
NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, \par
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY \par
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT \par
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISINGIN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF \par
THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF MX4J NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
INFO-ZIP: The Program includes "UnZipSFX stub" software from the Info-Zip group\par
under the terms and conditions of the following license:\par
\par
http://www.info-zip.org/license.html\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1990-2003 Info-ZIP.  All rights reserved.\par
\par
For the purposes of this copyright and license, "Info-ZIP" is defined as\par
the following set of individuals:\par
\par
   Mark Adler, John Bush, Karl Davis, Harald Denker, Jean-Michel Dubois,\par
   Jean-loup Gailly, Hunter Goatley, Ian Gorman, Chris Herborth, Dirk Haase,\par
   Greg Hartwig, Robert Heath, Jonathan Hudson, Paul Kienitz, David Kirschbaum,\par
   Johnny Lee, Onno van der Linden, Igor Mandrichenko, Steve P. Miller,\par
   Sergio Monesi, Keith Owens, George Petrov, Greg Roelofs, Kai Uwe Rommel,\par
   Steve Salisbury, Dave Smith, Christian Spieler, Antoine Verheijen,\par
   Paul von Behren, Rich Wales, Mike White\par
\par
This software is provided "as is," without warranty of any kind, express\par
or implied.  In no event shall Info-ZIP or its contributors be held liable\par
for any direct, indirect, incidental, special or consequential damages\par
arising out of the use of or inability to use this software.\par
\par
Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,\par
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it\par
freely, subject to the following restrictions:\par
\par
    1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\par
       definition, disclaimer, and this list of conditions.\par
\par
    2. Redistributions in binary form (compiled executables) must reproduce\par
       the above copyright notice, definition, disclaimer, and this list of\par
       conditions in documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
       distribution.  The sole exception to this condition is redistribution\par
       of a standard UnZipSFX binary (including SFXWiz) as part of a\par
       self-extracting archive; that is permitted without inclusion of this\par
       license, as long as the normal SFX banner has not been removed from\par
       the binary or disabled.\par
\par
    3. Altered versions--including, but not limited to, ports to new operating\par
       systems, existing ports with new graphical interfaces, and dynamic,\par
       shared, or static library versions--must be plainly marked as such\par
       and must not be misrepresented as being the original source.  Such\par
       altered versions also must not be misrepresented as being Info-ZIP\par
       releases--including, but not limited to, labeling of the altered\par
       versions with the names "Info-ZIP" (or any variation thereof, including,\par
       but not limited to, different capitalizations), "Pocket UnZip," "WiZ"\par
       or "MacZip" without the explicit permission of Info-ZIP.  Such altered\par
       versions are further prohibited from misrepresentative use of the\par
       Zip-Bugs or Info-ZIP e-mail addresses or of the Info-ZIP URL(s).\par
\par
    4. Info-ZIP retains the right to use the names "Info-ZIP," "Zip," "UnZip,"\par
       "UnZipSFX," "WiZ," "Pocket UnZip," "Pocket Zip," and "MacZip" for its\par
       own source and binary releases.\par
\par
\par
END OF INFO-ZIP NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
ZLIB. The Program includes the zlib.h - interface of the 'zlib' general purposes\par
compression library version 1.1.3, 1.2.2 and 1.2.5. IBM obtained the software under the terms and\par
conditions of the following license agreement:\par
\par
http://www.gzip.org/zlib/zlib_license.html\par
\par
License\par
\par
Copyright (C) 1995-2010 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler\par
\par
This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty. In\par
no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of\par
this software.\par
\par
Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including\par
commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to\par
the following restrictions:\par
\par
1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim\par
that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an\par
acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is not\par
required.\par
2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be\par
misrepresented as being the original software.\par
3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.\par
\par
Jean-loup Gailly jloup@gzip.org\par
Mark Adler madler@alumni.caltech.edu\par
\par
END OF ZLIB NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
MINIZIP. The Program includes the zip.h - IO for compress .zip files version\par
0.15 and 1.01. IBM obtained the software under the terms and conditions of the following\par
license agreement:\par
\par
Copyright (C) 1998-2005 Gilles Vollant\par
\par
This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty. In\par
no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of\par
this software.\par
\par
Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including\par
commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to\par
the following restrictions:\par
\par
1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim\par
that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an\par
acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is not\par
required.\par
2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be\par
misrepresented as being the original software.\par
3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.\par
\par
END OF MINIZIP NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
OPENSSL. The Program includes OpenSSL which is under a dual license. \par
IBM obtained OpenSSL under the following two licenses: \par
\par
 OpenSSL License\par
 ---------------\par
Copyright (c) 1998-2008 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
are met:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in\par
   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
   distribution.\par
\par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this\par
   software must display the following acknowledgment:\par
   "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project\par
   for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"\par
\par
4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to\par
   endorse or promote products derived from this software without\par
   prior written permission. For written permission, please contact\par
   openssl-core@openssl.org.\par
\par
5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"\par
   nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written\par
   permission of the OpenSSL Project.\par
\par
6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following\par
   acknowledgment:\par
   "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project\par
   for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY\par
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR\par
ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,\par
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT\par
NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;\par
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)\par
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,\par
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)\par
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED\par
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
\par
This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young\par
(eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim\par
Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).\par
\par
Original SSLeay License\par
-----------------------\par
\par
Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
This package is an SSL implementation written\par
by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).\par
The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.\par
\par
This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as\par
the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions\par
apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA,\par
lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation\par
included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright terms\par
except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).\par
\par
Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in\par
the code are not to be removed.\par
If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution\par
as the author of the parts of the library used.\par
This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or\par
in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
are met:\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software\par
   must display the following acknowledgement:\par
   "This product includes cryptographic software written by\par
    Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)"\par
   The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the library\par
   being used are not cryptographic related :-).\par
4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from\par
   the apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement:\par
   "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND\par
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS\par
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)\par
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT\par
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY\par
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or\par
derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be\par
copied and put under another distribution licence\par
[including the GNU Public Licence.]\par
\par
\par
END OF OPENSSL NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
OPENSSH 5.4p1\par
\par
This file is part of the OpenSSH software.\par
\par
The licences which components of this software fall under are as\par
follows.  First, we will summarize and say that all components\par
are under a BSD licence, or a licence more free than that.\par
\par
OpenSSH contains no GPL code.\par
\par
1)\par
     * Copyright (c) 1995 Tatu Ylonen <ylo@cs.hut.fi>, Espoo, Finland\par
     *                    All rights reserved\par
     *\par
     * As far as I am concerned, the code I have written for this software\par
     * can be used freely for any purpose.  Any derived versions of this\par
     * software must be clearly marked as such, and if the derived work is\par
     * incompatible with the protocol description in the RFC file, it must be\par
     * called by a name other than "ssh" or "Secure Shell".\par
\par
    [Tatu continues]\par
     *  However, I am not implying to give any licenses to any patents or\par
     * copyrights held by third parties, and the software includes parts that\par
     * are not under my direct control.  As far as I know, all included\par
     * source code is used in accordance with the relevant license agreements\par
     * and can be used freely for any purpose (the GNU license being the most\par
     * restrictive); see below for details.\par
\par
    [However, none of that term is relevant at this point in time.  All of\par
    these restrictively licenced software components which he talks about\par
    have been removed from OpenSSH, i.e.,\par
\par
     - RSA is no longer included, found in the OpenSSL library\par
     - IDEA is no longer included, its use is deprecated\par
     - DES is now external, in the OpenSSL library\par
     - GMP is no longer used, and instead we call BN code from OpenSSL\par
     - Zlib is now external, in a library\par
     - The make-ssh-known-hosts script is no longer included\par
     - TSS has been removed\par
     - MD5 is now external, in the OpenSSL library\par
     - RC4 support has been replaced with ARC4 support from OpenSSL\par
     - Blowfish is now external, in the OpenSSL library\par
\par
    [The licence continues]\par
\par
    Note that any information and cryptographic algorithms used in this\par
    software are publicly available on the Internet and at any major\par
    bookstore, scientific library, and patent office worldwide.  More\par
    information can be found e.g. at "http://www.cs.hut.fi/crypto".\par
\par
    The legal status of this program is some combination of all these\par
    permissions and restrictions.  Use only at your own responsibility.\par
    You will be responsible for any legal consequences yourself; I am not\par
    making any claims whether possessing or using this is legal or not in\par
    your country, and I am not taking any responsibility on your behalf.\par
\par
\par
\tab\tab  \tab\tab  \tab\tab      NO WARRANTY\par
\par
    BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY\par
    FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN\par
    OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES\par
    PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED\par
    OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF\par
    MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS\par
    TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE\par
    PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,\par
    REPAIR OR CORRECTION.\par
\par
    IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING\par
    WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR\par
    REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,\par
    INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING\par
    OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED\par
    TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY\par
    YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER\par
    PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE\par
    POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\par
\par
2)\par
    The 32-bit CRC compensation attack detector in deattack.c was\par
    contributed by CORE SDI S.A. under a BSD-style license.\par
\par
     * Cryptographic attack detector for ssh - source code\par
     *\par
     * Copyright (c) 1998 CORE SDI S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina.\par
     *\par
     * All rights reserved. Redistribution and use in source and binary\par
     * forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that\par
     * this copyright notice is retained.\par
     *\par
     * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED\par
     * WARRANTIES ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL CORE SDI S.A. BE\par
     * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY OR\par
     * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES RESULTING FROM THE USE OR MISUSE OF THIS\par
     * SOFTWARE.\par
     *\par
     * Ariel Futoransky <futo@core-sdi.com>\par
     * <http://www.core-sdi.com>\par
\par
3)\par
    ssh-keyscan was contributed by David Mazieres under a BSD-style\par
    license.\par
\par
     * Copyright 1995, 1996 by David Mazieres <dm@lcs.mit.edu>.\par
     *\par
     * Modification and redistribution in source and binary forms is\par
     * permitted provided that due credit is given to the author and the\par
     * OpenBSD project by leaving this copyright notice intact.\par
\par
4)\par
    The Rijndael implementation by Vincent Rijmen, Antoon Bosselaers\par
    and Paulo Barreto is in the public domain and distributed\par
    with the following license:\par
\par
     * @version 3.0 (December 2000)\par
     *\par
     * Optimised ANSI C code for the Rijndael cipher (now AES)\par
     *\par
     * @author Vincent Rijmen <vincent.rijmen@esat.kuleuven.ac.be>\par
     * @author Antoon Bosselaers <antoon.bosselaers@esat.kuleuven.ac.be>\par
     * @author Paulo Barreto <paulo.barreto@terra.com.br>\par
     *\par
     * This code is hereby placed in the public domain.\par
     *\par
     * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHORS ''AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS\par
     * OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED\par
     * WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
     * ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE\par
     * LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR\par
     * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF\par
     * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR\par
     * BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,\par
     * WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE\par
     * OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,\par
     * EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
5)\par
    One component of the ssh source code is under a 3-clause BSD license,\par
    held by the University of California, since we pulled these parts from\par
    original Berkeley code.\par
\par
     * Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1992, 1993, 1995\par
     *      The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.\par
     *\par
     * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
     * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
     * are met:\par
     * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
     *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
     * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
     *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
     *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
     * 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors\par
     *    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software\par
     *    without specific prior written permission.\par
     *\par
     * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND\par
     * ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
     * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
     * ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
     * FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
     * DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS\par
     * OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)\par
     * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT\par
     * LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY\par
     * OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
     * SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
6)\par
    Remaining components of the software are provided under a standard\par
    2-term BSD licence with the following names as copyright holders:\par
\par
\tab\tab  Markus Friedl\par
\tab\tab  Theo de Raadt\par
\tab\tab  Niels Provos\par
\tab\tab  Dug Song\par
\tab\tab  Aaron Campbell\par
\tab\tab  Damien Miller\par
\tab\tab  Kevin Steves\par
\tab\tab  Daniel Kouril\par
\tab\tab  Wesley Griffin\par
\tab\tab  Per Allansson\par
\tab\tab  Nils Nordman\par
\tab\tab  Simon Wilkinson\par
\par
     * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
     * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
     * are met:\par
     * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
     *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
     * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
     *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
     *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
     *\par
     * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR\par
     * IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES\par
     * OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.\par
     * IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,\par
     * INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT\par
     * NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,\par
     * DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY\par
     * THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT\par
     * (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF\par
     * THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
\par
END OF OPENSSHL NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
RSA BSAFE. RSA Data Security, Inc., requires the following copyright notice:\par
\par
Crypto-C Software\par
Copyright RSA 2002.\par
\par
END OF RSA BSAFE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
END OF NOTICES FOR: IBM DB2 10.5\par
\par
=========================================================\par
\par
IBM Data Server Driver for JDBC and SQLJ Version 3 and 4\par
\par
SQLJ CODE. This Program includes Oracle SQLJ files SourceMapper.java and ClassMapper.java. IBM is required to provide to You the following notices and other important information with respect to these components.\par
\par
Oracle expressly places this Software in the public domain. However, Oracle grants no other rights, whether express or implied, to users of this Software, and Oracle provides this Software on an "AS-IS" basis, exclusive of any warranty including, without limitation, all warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, noninfringement or any other warranty, whether expressed or implied. You use this Software at your own risk and agree that Oracle shall not be liable for any damages, including but not limited to, direct, indirect, incidental, special, cover, reliance, or consequential damages, arising from your use of the Software.\par
\par
END OF ORACLE SQLJ FILES SOURCEMAPPER.JAVA AND CLASSMAPPER.JAVA NOTICE AND LICENSE INFORMATION \par
\par
END OF NOTICES FOR: IBM Data Server Driver for JDBC and SQLJ \par
\par
=========================================================\par
\par
IBM Data Server Driver for ODBC and CLI 10.5\par
\par
NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
\par
The Program includes the following components:\par
\par
* XML4C 5.8\par
* GSKit 8\par
* zlib 1.1.3\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
XML4C 5.8\par
\par
See notice above\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
GSKit 8\par
\par
See notice above\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
zlib 1.1.3\par
\par
See notice above\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
END OF NOTICES FOR: IBM Data Server Driver for ODBC and CLI 10.5\par
\par
=========================================================\par
\par
IBM Data Server Driver Package 10.5\par
\par
NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
\par
The Program includes the following components:\par
\par
* ARQ 2.8.8\par
* Jena 2.6.4\par
* WALA 1.3.1\par
* jline 0.9.93\par
* ANTLR 3.3\par
* ActiveRecord 2.2.3\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
ARQ 2.8.8 and Jena 2.6.4\par
\par
(c) Copyright 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, LP\par
(c) Copyright 2010 Talis Information Ltd\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
are met:\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products\par
   derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES\par
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.\par
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,\par
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT\par
NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,\par
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY\par
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT\par
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF\par
THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
WALA 1.3.1\par
\par
Eclipse Public License - v 1.0\par
THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS ECLIPSE PUBLIC LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.\par
1. DEFINITIONS\par
"Contribution" means:\par
a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial code and documentation distributed under this Agreement, and\par
b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:\par
i) changes to the Program, and\par
ii) additions to the Program;\par
where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and are distributed by that particular Contributor. A Contribution 'originates' from a Contributor if it was added to the Program by such Contributor itself or anyone acting on such Contributor's behalf. Contributions do not include additions to the Program which: (i) are separate modules of software distributed in conjunction with the Program under their own license agreement, and (ii) are not derivative works of the Program.\par
"Contributor" means any person or entity that distributes the Program.\par
"Licensed Patents" mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor which are necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution alone or when combined with the Program.\par
"Program" means the Contributions distributed in accordance with this Agreement.\par
"Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this Agreement, including all Contributors.\par
2. GRANT OF RIGHTS\par
a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform, distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, and such derivative works, in source code and object code form.\par
b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent license under Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell, import and otherwise transfer the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, in source code and object code form. This patent license shall apply to the combination of the Contribution and the Program if, at the time the Contribution is added by the Contributor, such addition of the Contribution causes such combination to be covered by the Licensed Patents. The patent license shall not apply to any other combinations which include the Contribution. No hardware per se is licensed hereunder.\par
c) Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the licenses to its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are provided by any Contributor that the Program does not infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of any other entity. Each Contributor disclaims any liability to Recipient for claims brought by any other entity based on infringement of intellectual property rights or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the rights and licenses granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility to secure any other intellectual property rights needed, if any. For example, if a third party patent license is required to allow Recipient to distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility to acquire that license before distributing the Program.\par
d) Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient copyright rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright license set forth in this Agreement.\par
3. REQUIREMENTS\par
A Contributor may choose to distribute the Program in object code form under its own license agreement, provided that:\par
a) it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and\par
b) its license agreement:\par
i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties and conditions, express and implied, including warranties or conditions of title and non-infringement, and implied warranties or conditions of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose;\par
ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability for damages, including direct, indirect, special, incidental and consequential damages, such as lost profits;\par
iii) states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are offered by that Contributor alone and not by any other party; and\par
iv) states that source code for the Program is available from such Contributor, and informs licensees how to obtain it in a reasonable manner on or through a medium customarily used for software exchange.\par
When the Program is made available in source code form:\par
a) it must be made available under this Agreement; and\par
b) a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the Program.\par
Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright notices contained within the Program.\par
Each Contributor must identify itself as the originator of its Contribution, if any, in a manner that reasonably allows subsequent Recipients to identify the originator of the Contribution.\par
4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION\par
Commercial distributors of software may accept certain responsibilities with respect to end users, business partners and the like. While this license is intended to facilitate the commercial use of the Program, the Contributor who includes the Program in a commercial product offering should do so in a manner which does not create potential liability for other Contributors. Therefore, if a Contributor includes the Program in a commercial product offering, such Contributor ("Commercial Contributor") hereby agrees to defend and indemnify every other Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") against any losses, damages and costs (collectively "Losses") arising from claims, lawsuits and other legal actions brought by a third party against the Indemnified Contributor to the extent caused by the acts or omissions of such Commercial Contributor in connection with its distribution of the Program in a commercial product offering. The obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses relating to any actual or alleged intellectual property infringement. In order to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly notify the Commercial Contributor in writing of such claim, and b) allow the Commercial Contributor to control, and cooperate with the Commercial Contributor in, the defense and any related settlement negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may participate in any such claim at its own expense.\par
For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial product offering, Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial Contributor. If that Commercial Contributor then makes performance claims, or offers warranties related to Product X, those performance claims and warranties are such Commercial Contributor's responsibility alone. Under this section, the Commercial Contributor would have to defend claims against the other Contributors related to those performance claims and warranties, and if a court requires any other Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the Commercial Contributor must pay those damages.\par
5. NO WARRANTY\par
EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each Recipient is solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using and distributing the Program and assumes all risks associated with its exercise of rights under this Agreement , including but not limited to the risks and costs of program errors, compliance with applicable laws, damage to or loss of data, programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption of operations.\par
6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY\par
EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\par
7. GENERAL\par
If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the terms of this Agreement, and without further action by the parties hereto, such provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable.\par
If Recipient institutes patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program itself (excluding combinations of the Program with other software or hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then such Recipient's rights granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.\par
All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it fails to comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this Agreement and does not cure such failure in a reasonable period of time after becoming aware of such noncompliance. If all Recipient's rights under this Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to cease use and distribution of the Program as soon as reasonably practicable. However, Recipient's obligations under this Agreement and any licenses granted by Recipient relating to the Program shall continue and survive.\par
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement, but in order to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and may only be modified in the following manner. The Agreement Steward reserves the right to publish new versions (including revisions) of this Agreement from time to time. No one other than the Agreement Steward has the right to modify this Agreement. The Eclipse Foundation is the initial Agreement Steward. The Eclipse Foundation may assign the responsibility to serve as the Agreement Steward to a suitable separate entity. Each new version of the Agreement will be given a distinguishing version number. The Program (including Contributions) may always be distributed subject to the version of the Agreement under which it was received. In addition, after a new version of the Agreement is published, Contributor may elect to distribute the Program (including its Contributions) under the new version. Except as expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, Recipient receives no rights or licenses to the intellectual property of any Contributor under this Agreement, whether expressly, by implication, estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program not expressly granted under this Agreement are reserved.\par
This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and the intellectual property laws of the United States of America. No party to this Agreement will bring a legal action under this Agreement more than one year after the cause of action arose. Each party waives its rights to a jury trial in any resulting litigation.\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
JLINE 0.9.93\par
\par
See notice above\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
ANTLR 3.3\par
\par
ANTLR 3 License\par
\par
[The BSD License]\par
Copyright (c) 2003-2008, Terence Parr\par
All rights reserved. \par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: \par
A\'c3\'ba\tab Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \par
A\'c3\'ba\tab Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. \par
A\'c3\'ba\tab Neither the name of the author nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
ActiveRecord 2.2.3\par
\par
The MIT License\par
Copyright (c) <year> <copyright holders>\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy\par
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal\par
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights\par
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell\par
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is\par
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in\par
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE\par
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER\par
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,\par
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN\par
THE SOFTWARE. \par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
END OF NOTICES FOR: IBM Data Server Driver Package 10.5\par
\par
=========================================================\par
\par
Technology Preview Code\par
\par
The following are included as Technology Preview Code and may be evaluated by Licensee for 90 days after initial installation.\par
\par
- Inplace (online) table reorganization support in a DB2 pureScaleAr environment\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
* JSON API Support\par
* JSON Technonlogy\par
\par
APACHE CODE II. The Program includes all or portions of the following software which is available under the Apache License Version 2.0, January 2004. This software may also consist of voluntary contributions made by many individuals to the Apache Software Foundation. Some or all of the following software may be components of other included software packages noted later in this file.  For more information on the Apache Software Foundation, please see http://www.apache.org:\par
\par
- MongoDB C Driver v0.6\par
- MongoDB Java Driver v2.8.0\par
- MongoDB Node.js driver v1.1\par
\par
See Apache License Version 2.0 above.\par
\par
********************************************************************** \par
 \par
This program includes the file encoding.c in the MongoDB C Driver. The following are notices and other important information regarding this third party code.\par
\par
 \par
* Portions Copyright 2001 Unicode, Inc.\par
 *\par
 * Disclaimer\par
 *\par
 * This source code is provided as is by Unicode, Inc. No claims are\par
 * made as to fitness for any particular purpose. No warranties of any\par
 * kind are expressed or implied. The recipient agrees to determine\par
 * applicability of information provided. If this file has been\par
 * purchased on magnetic or optical media from Unicode, Inc., the\par
 * sole remedy for any claim will be exchange of defective media\par
 * within 90 days of receipt.\par
 *\par
 * Limitations on Rights to Redistribute This Code\par
 *\par
 * Unicode, Inc. hereby grants the right to freely use the information\par
 * supplied in this file in the creation of products supporting the\par
 * Unicode Standard, and to make copies of this file in any form\par
 * for internal or external distribution as long as this notice\par
 * remains attached.\par
 */\par
\par
End of Notices and Information for encoding.c in the MongoDB C Driver.\par
\par
********************************************************************** \par
\par
This program includes the file assertions.java in the MongoDB Java Driver. The following are notices and other important information regarding this third party code. \par
\par
   \par
/**\par
 * Copyright 2008 Atlassian Pty Ltd \par
 * \par
 * Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); \par
 * you may not use this file except in compliance with the License\par
 * You may obtain a copy of the License at \par
 * \par
 *     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 \par
 * \par
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software \par
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, \par
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. \par
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and \par
 * limitations under the License.\par
 */\par
\par
End of Notices and Information for assertions.java in the MongoDB Java Driver.\par
\par
********************************************************************** \par
\par
This program includes the file UTF8Encoding.java in the MongoDB Java Driver.  The following are notices and other important information regarding this third party code.\par
\tab  \par
\par
Copyright (c) 1997-2008, PostgreSQL Global Development Group\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright \par
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
3. Neither the name of the PostgreSQL Global Development Group nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
End of Notices and Information for UTF8Encoding.java in the MongoDB Java Driver.\par
\par
********************************************************************** \par
\par
End of Notices and Information for MongoDB C Driver, MongoDB Java Driver and\par
MongoDB Node.js driver.\par
\par
===============================================================================\par
\par
This program includes JSON-C 0.10. The following are notices and other important information regarding this third party code. \par
\par
The MIT License (MIT)\par
\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005 Metaparadigm Pte Ltd\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a\par
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),\par
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation\par
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,\par
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the\par
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included\par
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE\par
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER\par
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,\par
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE\par
SOFTWARE.\par
\par
* Copyright (c) 2009-2012 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.\par
*\par
* This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify\par
* it under the terms of the MIT license. \par
\par
* Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Yahoo! Inc.  All rights reserved.\par
* The copyrights to the contents of this file are licensed under the MIT License\par
\par
\par
End of Notices and Information for JSON-C\par
===============================================================================\par
\par
End of Notices and Information for JSON Technology\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
Explicit Hierarchical Locking\par
\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
Online Table Reorganization\par
\par
\par
=========================================================\par
\par
\par
IBM SDK/Runtime Environment, Java(TM) 2 Technology Edition, Version 7.0\par
\par
See Java notices in the following directory:\par
\par
AIX, Linux/AMD64, Linux/PPC, Linux/zSeries, Sun, HP\par
     $InstallPath/java/jdk64/notices.txt\par
\par
Linux/IA32\par
 $InstallPath/java/jdk32/notices.txt\par
\par
Windows\par
    %InstallPath%\\SQLLIB\\java\\jdk\\notices.txt\par
\par
\par
END OF JAVA SDK/RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT NOTICES\par
\par
\par
=========================================================\par
\par
\par
IBM Tivoli System Automation for Multiplatforms Version 3.2\par
 \par
NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
\par
The Program includes the following components:\par
\par
for IBM Tivoli System Automation for Multiplatforms Version 3.2\par
\par
* XML4C 5.7\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
XML4C 5.7\par
\par
See Apache notice above\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
\par
END OF NOTICES FOR : IBM Tivoli System Automation for Multiplatforms\par
\par
=========================================================\par
\par
IBM  Directory Server 6.3 - Client Only (component)\par
 \par
NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
\par
The Program includes the following components:\par
\par
for IBM  Directory Server 6.3 - Client Only (component)\par
\par
NOTICES FOR THIRD PARTY COMPONENTS IN THE PROGRAM\par
\par
\par
1.1   libmsg 2.5\par
\par
\par
   Copyright 1990, by Alfalfa Software Incorporated, Cambridge, Massachusetts.\par
\par
   All Rights Reserved\par
\par
   Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its\par
   documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,\par
   provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that\par
   both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in\par
   supporting documentation, and that Alfalfa's name not be used in\par
   advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software\par
   without specific, written prior permission.\par
\par
   ALPHALPHA DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING\par
   ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL\par
   ALPHALPHA BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR\par
   ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,\par
   WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION,\par
   ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS\par
   SOFTWARE.\par
\par
\par
=====================================================================\par
\par
1.2  unzipSFX stub file from Info-Zip 5.41, 5.42 & 5.50\par
\par
=====================================================================\par
\par
This is version 2007-Mar-4 of the Info-ZIP license. The definitive version of this document should be available at ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/license.html indefinitely and a copy at http://www.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/license.html.\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1990-2007 Info-ZIP. All rights reserved. \par
\par
For the purposes of this copyright and license, "Info-ZIP" is defined as the following set of individuals: \par
Mark Adler, John Bush, Karl Davis, Harald Denker, Jean-Michel Dubois, Jean-loup Gailly, Hunter Goatley, Ed Gordon, Ian Gorman, Chris Herborth, Dirk Haase, Greg Hartwig, Robert Heath, Jonathan Hudson, Paul Kienitz, David Kirschbaum, Johnny Lee, Onno van der Linden, Igor Mandrichenko, Steve P. Miller, Sergio Monesi, Keith Owens, George Petrov, Greg Roelofs, Kai Uwe Rommel, Steve Salisbury, Dave Smith, Steven M. Schweda, Christian Spieler, Cosmin Truta, Antoine Verheijen, Paul von Behren, Rich Wales, Mike White. \par
 \par
This software is provided "as is," without warranty of any kind, express or implied. In no event shall Info-ZIP or its contributors be held liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special or consequential damages arising out of the use of or inability to use this software. \par
\par
Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to the above disclaimer and the following restrictions: \par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code (in whole or in part) must retain the above copyright notice, definition, disclaimer, and this list of conditions. \par
\par
2. Redistributions in binary form (compiled executables and libraries) must reproduce the above copyright notice, definition, disclaimer, and this list of conditions in documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. The sole exception to this condition is redistribution of a standard UnZipSFX binary (including SFXWiz) as part of a self-extracting archive; that is permitted without inclusion of this license, as long as the normal SFX banner has not been removed from the binary or disabled.  \par
\par
3. Altered versions--including, but not limited to, ports to new operating systems, existing ports with new graphical interfaces, versions with modified or added functionality, and dynamic, shared, or static library versions not from Info-ZIP--must be plainly marked as such and must not be misrepresented as being the original source or, if binaries, compiled from the original source. Such altered versions also must not be misrepresented as being Info-ZIP releases--including, but not limited to, labeling of the altered versions with the names "Info-ZIP" (or any variation thereof, including, but not limited to, different capitalizations), "Pocket UnZip," "WiZ" or "MacZip" without the explicit permission of Info-ZIP. Such altered versions are further prohibited from misrepresentative use of the Zip-Bugs or Info-ZIP e-mail addresses or the Info-ZIP URL(s), such as to imply Info-ZIP will provide support for the altered versions. \par
\par
4. Info-ZIP retains the right to use the names "Info-ZIP," "Zip," "UnZip," "UnZipSFX," "WiZ," "Pocket UnZip," "Pocket Zip," and "MacZip" for its own source and binary releases. \par
\par
\par
-----------------\par
\par
UnZipSFX Stub file: The Program includes \'c6\rquote ?oUnZipSFX stub\'c6\rquote ?? software from the Info-Zip group which is Copyright (c) 1999-2002, Info-ZIP. All rights reserved. IBM did not modify the UnZipSFX software. There are no extra charges or costs due to the use of this code, and the original compression sources are freely available from http://www.info-zip.org/ on the Internet.\par
\par
=====================================================================\par
\par
1.3  OpenLDAP 2.1\par
\par
=====================================================================\par
\par
The OpenLDAP Public License\par
  Version 2.7, 7 September 2001\par
\par
Redistribution and use of this software and associated documentation\par
("Software"), with or without modification, are permitted provided\par
that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain copyright statements\par
   and notices,\par
\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce applicable copyright\par
   statements and notices, this list of conditions, and the following\par
   disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided\par
   with the distribution, and\par
\par
3. Redistributions must contain a verbatim copy of this document.\par
\par
The OpenLDAP Foundation may revise this license from time to time.\par
Each revision is distinguished by a version number.  You may use\par
this Software under terms of this license revision or under the\par
terms of any subsequent revision of the license.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OPENLDAP FOUNDATION AND ITS\par
CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,\par
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY\par
AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT\par
SHALL THE OPENLDAP FOUNDATION, ITS CONTRIBUTORS, OR THE AUTHOR(S)\par
OR OWNER(S) OF THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,\par
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,\par
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;\par
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER\par
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT\par
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN\par
ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE\par
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
The names of the authors and copyright holders must not be used in\par
advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealing\par
in this Software without specific, written prior permission.  Title\par
to copyright in this Software shall at all times remain with\par
copyright holders.\par
\par
OpenLDAP is a registered trademark of the OpenLDAP Foundation.\par
\par
Copyright 1999-2001 The OpenLDAP Foundation, Redwood City,\par
California, USA.  All Rights Reserved.  Permission to copy and\par
distribute verbatim copies of this document is granted.\par
\par
\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
1.4  OpenSSL 0.9.7c and 0.9.8e\par
\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
The Program is accompanied by software currently developed by The \par
OpenSSL Project (http://www.openssl.org/).  IBM obtained the majority of the OpenSSL \par
software under the terms and conditions of the following licenses: \par
\par
See OpenSSL License above\par
\par
\par
============= COPYRIGHT DES ==============================\par
\par
Copyright (C) 1995-1997 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
This package is an DES implementation written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).\par
The implementation was written so as to conform with MIT's libdes.\par
\par
This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as\par
the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions\par
apply to all code found in this distribution.\par
\par
Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in\par
the code are not to be removed.\par
If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution\par
as the author of that the SSL library.  This can be in the form of a textual\par
message at program startup or in documentation (online or textual) provided\par
with the package.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
are met:\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software\par
   must display the following acknowledgement:\par
   This product includes software developed by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND\par
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS\par
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)\par
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT\par
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY\par
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
The license and distribution terms for any publically available version or\par
derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be\par
copied and put under another distrubution license\par
[including the GNU Public License.]\par
\par
The reason behind this being stated in this direct manner is past\par
experience in code simply being copied and the attribution removed\par
from it and then being distributed as part of other packages. This\par
implementation was a non-trivial and unpaid effort.\par
\par
============= COPYRIGHT Blowfish ==============================\par
\par
Copyright (C) 1995-1997 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
This package is an Blowfish implementation written\par
by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).\par
\par
This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as\par
the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions\par
apply to all code found in this distribution.\par
\par
Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in\par
the code are not to be removed.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
are met:\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software\par
   must display the following acknowledgement:\par
   This product includes software developed by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND\par
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS\par
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)\par
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT\par
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY\par
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
The license and distribution terms for any publically available version or\par
derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be\par
copied and put under another distrubution license\par
\par
[including the GNU Public License.]\par
\par
The reason behind this being stated in this direct manner is past\par
experience in code simply being copied and the attribution removed\par
from it and then being distributed as part of other packages. This\par
implementation was a non-trivial and unpaid effort.\par
\par
============= typical c-file header for Copyrights ========================\par
\par
/* apps/crl2p7.c */\par
/* Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)\par
 * All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * This package is an SSL implementation written\par
 * by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).\par
 * The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.\par
 * \par
 * This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as\par
 * the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions\par
 * apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA,\par
 * lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation\par
 * included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright terms\par
 * except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).\par
 * \par
 * Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in\par
 * the code are not to be removed.\par
 * If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution\par
 * as the author of the parts of the library used.\par
 * This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or\par
 * in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.\par
 * \par
* Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software\par
 *    must display the following acknowledgement:\par
 *    "This product includes cryptographic software written by\par
 *     Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)"\par
 *    The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the library\par
 *    being used are not cryptographic related :-).\par
 * 4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from \par
 *    the apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement:\par
 *    "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"\par
 * \par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND\par
 * ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
 * ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
 * FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
 * DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS\par
 * OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)\par
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT\par
 * LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY\par
 * OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
 * SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 * \par
 * The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or\par
 * derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be\par
 * copied and put under another distribution licence\par
 * [including the GNU Public Licence.]\par
 */\par
\par
/* This was written by Gordon Chaffee <chaffee@plateau.cs.berkeley.edu>\par
 * and donated 'to the cause' along with lots and lots of other fixes to\par
 * the library. */\par
\par
\par
\par
=====================================================================\par
\par
1.5  M.I.T. Kerberos 5\par
\par
=====================================================================\par
\par
\par
Copyright (C) 1985-2004 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. \par
\par
Export of software employing encryption from the United States of\par
America may require a specific license from the United States\par
Government. It is the responsibility of any person or organization\par
contemplating export to obtain such a license before exporting. \par
\par
WITHIN THAT CONSTRAINT, permission to use, copy, modify, and\par
distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and\par
without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright\par
notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and\par
this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that\par
the name of M.I.T. not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining\par
to distribution of the software without specific, written prior\par
permission. Furthermore if you modify this software you must label\par
your software as modified software and not distribute it in such a\par
fashion that it might be confused with the original MIT software.\par
M.I.T. makes no representations about the suitability of this software\par
for any purpose. It is provided 'as is' without express or implied\par
warranty. \par
The following copyright and permission notice applies to the\par
OpenVision Kerberos Administration system located in kadmin/create,\par
kadmin/dbutil, kadmin/passwd, kadmin/server, lib/kadm5, and portions\par
of lib/rpc:\par
\par
Copyright, OpenVision Technologies, Inc., 1996, All Rights Reserved\par
WARNING: Retrieving the OpenVision Kerberos Administration system\par
source code, as described below, indicates your acceptance of the\par
following terms. If you do not agree to the following terms, do not\par
retrieve the OpenVision Kerberos administration system. You may freely\par
use and distribute the Source Code and Object Code compiled from it,\par
with or without modification, but this Source\par
Code is provided to you 'AS IS' EXCLUSIVE OF ANY WARRANTY, INCLUDING,\par
WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A\par
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR ANY OTHER WARRANTY, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED.\par
IN NO EVENT WILL OPENVISION HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY LOST PROFITS,\par
LOSS OF DATA OR COSTS OF PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE\par
GOODS OR SERVICES, OR FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION,\par
THOSE RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THE SOURCE CODE, OR THE FAILURE OF THE\par
SOURCE CODE TO PERFORM, OR FOR ANY OTHER REASON. \par
\par
OpenVision retains all copyrights in the donated Source Code.\par
OpenVision also retains copyright to derivative works of the Source\par
Code, whether created by OpenVision or by a third party. The\par
OpenVision copyright notice must be preserved if derivative works are\par
made based on the donated Source Code. OpenVision Technologies, Inc.\par
has donated this Kerberos Administration system to MIT for inclusion\par
in the standard Kerberos 5 distribution.\par
\par
\par
==============================================================================\par
\par
1.6   University of Michigan 3.3\par
\par
==============================================================================\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1992-1996 Regents of the University of Michigan. All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided that this notice is preserved and that due credit is given to the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. The name of the University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software or documentation without specific prior written permission. This software is provided "as is" without any express or implied warranty. \par
\par
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
END OF NOTICES FOR: IBM Tivoli Directory Server 6.3 - Client Only (component)\par
\par
=========================================================\par
\par
IBM Tivoli Storage FlashCopy(R) Manager 3.2\par
\par
ASM\par
===\par
\par
The Program includes:\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba ObjectWeb ASM\par
 \par
IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the following license.\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2000-2005 INRIA, France Telecom\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
are met:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
3. Neither the name of the copyright holders nor the names of its\par
   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from\par
   this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)\par
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \par
\par
============ END OF OBJECTWEB ASM CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION =================\par
==========================================================================\par
\par
Apache License 1.1 Notices\par
==========================\par
\par
The Program includes all or portions of the following software developed by the Apache Software Foundation.  This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many individuals on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation.  For more information on the Apache Software Foundation, please see http://www.apache.org.  \par
\par
The following were obtained under V1.1 of the Apache license:\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Axis 1.1\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons Discovery 1.1\par
\par
IBM is required to provide you, as the recipient of such software, with a copy\par
of the following license(s) from the Apache Software Foundation:\par
\par
/* ====================================================================\par
 * The Apache Software License, Version 1.1\par
 *\par
 * Copyright (c) 2000 The Apache Software Foundation.  All rights\par
 * reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 *\par
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in\par
 *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
 *    distribution.\par
 *\par
 * 3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution,\par
 *    if any, must include the following acknowledgment:\par
 *       "This product includes software developed by the\par
 *        Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/)."\par
 *    Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself,\par
 *    if and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear.\par
 *\par
 * 4. The names "Apache" and "Apache Software Foundation" must\par
 *    not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this\par
 *    software without prior written permission. For written\par
 *    permission, please contact apache@apache.org.\par
 *\par
 * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "Apache",\par
 *    nor may "Apache" appear in their name, without prior written\par
 *    permission of the Apache Software Foundation.\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED\par
 * WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES\par
 * OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
 * DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE APACHE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION OR\par
 * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,\par
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
 * LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF\par
 * USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND\par
 * ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,\par
 * OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT\par
 * OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
 * SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 * ====================================================================\par
 *\par
 * This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many\par
 * individuals on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation.  For more\par
 * information on the Apache Software Foundation, please see\par
 * <http://www.apache.org/>.\par
 *\par
 * Portions of this software are based upon public domain software\par
 * originally written at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications,\par
 * University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.\par
 */\par
===============end of Apache License 1.1 notices============\par
==========================================================================\par
Apache License 2.0 Notices\par
==========================\par
\par
The Program includes all or portions of the following software developed by the Apache Software Foundation.  This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many individuals on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation.  For more information on the Apache Software Foundation, please see http://www.apache.org.  \par
\par
The following were obtained under V2.0 of the Apache license:\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Abdera\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Annogen\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Ant\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Ant 1.6.2\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Ant 1.7.1\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Aries\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Axiom\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Axis\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Axis2\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache BCEL\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Batik\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Bean Validation\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons Beanutil\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons Codec\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons Codec 1.3\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons Collection\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons Digester\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons Discover\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons EL\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons Fileupload\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons HTTP client\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons IO\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons JXPath\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons Lang\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons Logging\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons Logging 1.0.3\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons Logging 1.0.4\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons Logging 1.1\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons Pool\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Commons-Net\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Derby\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Derby 10.3\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Derby 10.5\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Felix\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Geronimo Specs\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Geronimo Specs Annotations\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Geronimo Specs EJB\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Geronimo Specs Interceptor\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Geronimo Specs J2EE Connector\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Geronimo Specs JASPIC\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Geronimo Specs JPA\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Geronimo Specs JTA\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Geronimo Specs Servlets\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache HTTP Client\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache HTTP Server\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache JAXRPC 1.1\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Jakarta httpcore\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Less.js 1.1.4\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Lucene\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Muse\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache MyFaces\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Neethi\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Open Ajax hub 1.0\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache OpenJPA\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Oro\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Portable Runtime\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache SAAJ 1.1\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache SOAP\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Sandesha2\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Struts\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Tomcat\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Tomcat 3.2.4\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Tools Ant\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Transport\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Tuscany\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Wink\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Woden\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache XML Schema\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache XML4C 5.5\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache XML4J 4.3\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache XML4J 4.4\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache XSLT4J 2.7\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Apache Xalan-J\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Backport-util-concurrent\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba CGLib\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba JSTL\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Jackson\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Jakarta RegExp\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Log4J\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Log4j 1.2.14\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba OSGi Materials\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Open Web Beans\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba XML Beans\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba XML Resolver\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba XML-APIs\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba XML4C 5.5\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba XML4J\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Xerces\par
\par
IBM is required to provide you, as the recipient of such software, with a copy\par
of the following license(s) from the Apache Software Foundation:\par
\par
\par
\par
                                 Apache License\par
                           Version 2.0, January 2004\par
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/\par
\par
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION\par
\par
1. Definitions.\par
\par
"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.\par
\par
"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright owner that is granting the License.\par
\par
"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,  "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.\par
\par
"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising permissions granted by this License.\par
\par
"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and configuration files.\par
\par
"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.\par
\par
"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work  (an example is provided in the Appendix below).\par
\par
"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.\par
\par
"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."\par
\par
"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently incorporated within the Work.\par
\par
2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.\par
\par
3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.\par
\par
4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:\par
\par
(a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy of this License; and\par
\par
(b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that You changed the files; and\par
\par
(c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and\par
\par
(d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying the License.\par
\par
You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this License.\par
\par
5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.\par
\par
6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.\par
\par
7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.\par
\par
8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such damages.\par
\par
9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.\par
\par
                    END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
\par
===============end of Apache License Version 2.0 notices============\par
==========================================================================\par
\par
Boost\par
===\par
Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization\par
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by\par
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,\par
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the\par
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to\par
do so, all subject to the following:\par
\par
The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including\par
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,\par
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and\par
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative\par
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by\par
a source language processor.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT\par
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,\par
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER\par
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
\par
============ END OF Boost NOTICES AND INFORMATION =================\par
==========================================================================\par
\par
BROWSERLAUNCHER CODE.  The Program includes the following BrowserLauncher software:\par
==================================================================================\par
\par
  \'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba BrowserLauncher V1.4b1\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from BrowserLauncher:  \par
\par
This code is Copyright 1999-2001 by Eric Albert (ejalbert@cs.stanford.edu) and may be redistributed or modified in any form without restrictions as long as the portion of this comment from this paragraph through the end of the comment is not removed.  The author requests that he be notified of any application, applet, or other binary that makes use of this code, but that's more out of curiosity than anything and is not required.  This software includes no warranty.  The author is not repsonsible for any loss of data or functionality or any adverse or unexpected effects of using this software.\par
\par
Credits:\par
Steven Spencer, JavaWorld magazine (http://www.javaworld.com/javaworld/javatips/jw-javatip66.html)\par
Thanks also to Ron B. Yeh, Eric Shapiro, Ben Engber, Paul Teitlebaum, Andrea Cantatore, Larry Barowski, Trevor Bedzek, Frank Miedrich, and Ron Rabakukk\par
\par
@author Eric Albert (ejalbert@cs.stanford.edu)\par
@version 1.4b1 (Released June 20, 2001)\par
\par
============ END OF BROWSERLAUNCHER NOTICES AND INFORMATION =================\par
\par
==========================================================================\par
CSS Styles from Yahoo Widget Library\par
====================================\par
\par
CSS Styles from Yahoo Widget Library.  The Program includes all or portions of the following software which was obtained under the terms and conditions of the BSD License.\par
\par
CSS Styles from  Yahoo Widget Library Library\par
Copyright (c) 2006, Yahoo! Inc.\par
 All rights reserved.\par
 Redistribution and use of this software in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \par
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 * Neither the name of Yahoo! Inc. nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission of Yahoo! Inc. \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \par
\par
==========================  END OF CSS Styles NOTICES AND INFORMATION ===========================\par
==========================================================================\par
ConvertUTF\par
==========\par
\par
Copyright 2001-2004 Unicode, Inc. \par
 \par
Disclaimer \par
 \par
This source code is provided as is by Unicode, Inc. No claims are \par
made as to fitness for any particular purpose. No warranties of any \par
kind are expressed or implied. The recipient agrees to determine \par
applicability of information provided. If this file has been \par
purchased on magnetic or optical media from Unicode, Inc., the \par
sole remedy for any claim will be exchange of defective media \par
within 90 days of receipt. \par
 \par
Limitations on Rights to Redistribute This Code \par
 \par
Unicode, Inc. hereby grants the right to freely use the information \par
supplied in this file in the creation of products supporting the \par
Unicode Standard, and to make copies of this file in any form \par
for internal or external distribution as long as this notice \par
remains attached.\par
\par
==================== END OF ConvertUTF NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
\par
==========================================================================\par
Curl\par
====\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Curl 7.19.5\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Curl 7.19.5-3\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba curl 7.19.5-4\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba curl 7.21.6-L2\par
\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1996 - 2011, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>.\par
\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any purpose\par
with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright\par
notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN\par
NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,\par
DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR\par
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE\par
OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not\par
be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings\par
in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder.\par
\par
===================== END OF CURL NOTICES AND INFORMATION ==========================\par
==========================================================================\par
\par
DOJO TOOLKIT\par
============\par
\par
The following versions are included:\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Dojo Toolkit\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Dojo Toolkit 1.7\par
\par
\par
The Program includes software which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the following license:\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2005-2012, The Dojo Foundation All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
  * Neither the name of the Dojo Foundation nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \par
\par
\par
============ END OF DOJO NOTICES AND INFORMATION =================\par
==========================================================================\par
ECLIPSE CODE \par
============\par
\par
EPL. The Program includes all or portions of the following \par
software which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions \par
the Eclipse Public License ("EPL Code") .\par
\par
The following subset of Excluded Components was obtained from the Eclipse Foundation: \par
Cairo Binding, Cairo Library, Independent JPEG Group's LIBJPEG Release 6b (derivative - subset), \par
Mozilla Binding, OSGi Materials, pixman, XHTML DTDs, MXJ4,  \par
Aspect J Runtime,,  IBM Eclipse SDK, IBM Eclipse Help System 3.0.1 components,  \par
Higgens Token Server,  TPTP , EMF, Eclipse Equinox (OSGi Services)  \par
\par
(herein collectively referred to as "Eclipse Code"). Notices and important information, including instructions for obtaining source code, for the Eclipse Code may be found in associated "about.html" files ("About Files") that accompany the Eclipse Code. These About Files are provided for informational purposes only, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary therein, your use of such Eclipse Code shall be governed by the terms of the IBM end user license agreement.\par
END OF ECLIPSE CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=============================================  \par
ECLIPSE PLATFORM DERIVATIVE CLASSES\par
\par
IBM has made certain modifications to Eclipse code, which modifications are referred to as the "Eclipse Platform 3.3 derivative classes".  These modifications have been contributed to the Eclipse Foundation and can be downloaded from www.eclipse.org. Look for the following bug:\par
  https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=187614\par
\par
Source code for the unmodified version of these files can be found at .www.eclipse.org\par
\par
==================== END OF ECLIPSE PLATFORM DERIVATIVE CLASSES NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
\par
==========================================================================\par
EPL CODE\par
========\par
\par
The Program includes all or portions of the following \par
software which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the \par
Eclipse Public License ("EPL Code"). This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many individuals in the open source community:\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Eclipse 3.1\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Eclipse Modeling Framework 2.0.1\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Eclipse Modeling Framework 2.1.0\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Hyades 3.0.1.1\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba XSD 2.1.0\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba sblim-CIM-client 1.3.2\par
\par
You may download the source version of these components at:\par
http://www.eclipse.org.\par
\par
The following terms apply to the EPL Code which is licensed by IBM under the Eclipse Public License ("EPL").  The Contributors (as defined in the EPL) of the EPL Code have provided their Contributions (as defined in the EPL) to IBM, and to you as part of the EPL code, "as is" without warranty or condition of any kind, either express, implied or statutory, including, but not limited to, any implied warranties or conditions of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement. In no event will the Contributors be liable for any lost profits, lost savings, lost revenue, lost data, or for any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages, even if IBM or the Contributors have been advised of the possibility of such losses or damages.  Any provisions in the IBM license agreement for the Program that relate to the EPL Code and that differ from the EPL are offered by IBM alone and not by any other party, including, without limitation, any contributor.  You may download the source code version of the EPL Code as indicated above.\par
\par
===================== END OF EPL NOTICES AND INFORMATION =====================\par
==========================================================================\par
JXML\par
====\par
\par
InstallShield X v10.02 includes the following Excluded Components:\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba\tab JXML Quick V1.0.1\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba\tab HSQLDB V1.7.1\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba\tab InfoZip Unzip stub file V5.40, V5.41,V5.42 & V5.5\par
\par
JXML CODE:  The Program includes the following JXML software:\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba\tab Quick V1.0.1\par
\par
IBM obtained the software under the terms and conditions of the following license from JXML:  \par
\par
Copyright (c) 1998, 1999, JXML, Inc. \par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
All product materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement: \par
\par
This product includes software developed by JXML, Inc. and its contributors: http://www.jxml.com/mdsax/contributers.html \par
\par
Neither name of JXML nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. \par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JXML, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF \par
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL JXML OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN \par
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
==================== END OF JXML NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
\par
InfoZip CODE\par
============\par
\par
The Program includes one or more of the following InfoZip software files:\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba\tab InfoZip Unzipsfx stub file V5.40, V5.41, V5.42 & V5.5\par
\par
IBM obtained software under the terms and conditions of the following license from InfoZip:  \par
\par
This is version 2000-Apr-09 of the Info-ZIP copyright and license.\par
The definitive version of this document should be available at\par
ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/license.html indefinitely.\par
\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1990-2000 Info-ZIP.  All rights reserved.\par
\par
For the purposes of this copyright and license, "Info-ZIP" is defined as\par
the following set of individuals:\par
\par
Mark Adler, John Bush, Karl Davis, Harald Denker, Jean-Michel Dubois, Jean-loup Gailly, Hunter Goatley, Ian Gorman, Chris Herborth, Dirk Haase, Greg Hartwig, Robert Heath, Jonathan Hudson, Paul Kienitz, David Kirschbaum, Johnny Lee, Onno van der Linden, Igor Mandrichenko, Steve P. Miller, Sergio Monesi, Keith Owens, George Petrov, Greg Roelofs, Kai Uwe Rommel, Steve Salisbury, Dave Smith, Christian Spieler, Antoine Verheijen, Paul von Behren, Rich Wales, Mike White\par
\par
This software is provided "as is," without warranty of any kind, express\par
or implied.  In no event shall Info-ZIP or its contributors be held liable\par
for any direct, indirect, incidental, special or consequential damages\par
arising out of the use of or inability to use this software.\par
\par
Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,\par
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it\par
freely, subject to the following restrictions:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,       definition, disclaimer, and this list of conditions.\par
\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, definition, disclaimer, and this list of conditions in documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
3. Altered versions--including, but not limited to, ports to new operating       systems, existing ports with new graphical interfaces, and dynamic, shared, or static library versions--must be plainly marked as such and must not be misrepresented as being the original source.  Such altered versions also must not be misrepresented as being Info-ZIP releases--including, but not limited to, labeling of the altered versions with the names "Info-ZIP" (or any variation thereof, including, but not limited to, different capitalizations), "Pocket UnZip," "WiZ" or "MacZip" without the explicit permission of Info-ZIP.  Such altered versions are further prohibited from misrepresentative use of the       Zip-Bugs or Info-ZIP e-mail addresses or of the Info-ZIP URL(s).\par
\par
4. Info-ZIP retains the right to use the names "Info-ZIP," "Zip," "UnZip,"    "WiZ," "Pocket UnZip," "Pocket Zip," and "MacZip" for its own source and       binary releases.\par
\par
==================== END OF INFOZIP NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
\par
END OF INSTALLSHIELD X.02 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
====================================================================\par
\par
IBM JAVA RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT 1.5\par
================================\par
\par
Apache BCEL and Apache REGEXP package\par
This Program includes software developed by the Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/). This software is:\par
Copyright (c) 1999-2003 The Apache Software Foundation. All rights reserved.\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution, if any, must include the following acknowledgment:\par
"This product includes software developed by the Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/)." \par
Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself, if and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear. \par
4. The names "Apache", "Apache Software Foundation", "Apache BCEL", and "Apache Turbine" must not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without prior written permission. For written permission, please contact Apache@apache.org.\par
5. Products derived from this software may not be called "Apache", "Apache BCEL", or "Apache Turbine", nor may "Apache" appear in their name, without prior written permission of the Apache Software Foundation.\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE APACHE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \par
This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many individuals on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation. For more information on the Apache Software Foundation, please see http://www.apache.org/. \par
---------------------------------\par
Apache Xerces (XML4J)\par
This product includes software developed by the Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/). \par
Portions of this software were originally based on the following: \par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba software copyright (c) 1999, IBM Corporation., http://www.ibm.com. \par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba software copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems., http://www.sun.com. \par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba voluntary contributions made by Paul Eng on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation that were originally developed at iClick, Inc., software copyright (c) 1999. \par
Apache Xalan Serializer\par
This product includes software developed by IBM Corporation (http://www.ibm.com)  \par
and the Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).\par
\par
Portions of this software were originally based on the following:\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba software copyright (c) 1999-2002, Lotus Development Corporation., http://www.lotus.com. \par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba software copyright (c) 2001-2002, Sun Microsystems., http://www.sun.com. \par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba software copyright (c) 2003, IBM Corporation., http://www.ibm.com. \par
Apache Xalan\par
This product includes software developed by IBM Corporation (http://www.ibm.com)  \par
and the Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).\par
\par
Portions of this software were originally based on the following:\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba software copyright (c) 1999-2002, Lotus Development Corporation., http://www.lotus.com. \par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba software copyright (c) 2001-2002, Sun Microsystems., http://www.sun.com. \par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba software copyright (c) 2003, IBM Corporation., http://www.ibm.com. \par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba voluntary contributions made by Ovidiu Predescu <ovidiu@cup.hp.com> on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation that was originally developed at Hewlett Packard Company.  \par
The binary distribution package (ie. jars, samples and documentation) of this product includes software developed by the following:\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba IBM Corporation \par
o B2BXML4J 1.2.1 \par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba IBM Corporation and others \par
o XSLT4J 2.7 \par
o XML4J 4.4  \par
o JAXP 1.3  \par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba The Apache Software Foundation \par
o Bytecode Engineering Library 5.0  \par
o Regular Expression 1.2  \par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Scott Hudson, Frank Flannery, C. Scott Ananian  \par
o CUP Parser Generator runtime v10k (javacup\\runtime) \par
Apache xml-commons xml-apis \par
This product includes software developed by IBM Corporation (http://www.ibm.com) \par
 and the Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).\par
\par
Portions of this software were originally based on the following:\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba software copyright (c) 1999, IBM Corporation., http://www.ibm.com. \par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba software copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems., http://www.sun.com. \par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba software copyright (c) 2000 World Wide Web Consortium, http://www.w3.org. \par
----------------------------------\par
DOM \par
Please refer to Notice at:  http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/copyright-software-20021231\par
Portions of the Program are Copyright (C) 1994-2002 World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). All Rights Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/ \par
------------------------------------\par
SAX Parser\par
For information and copyright status, please refer to  http://www.saxproject.org/.\par
---------------------------------------\par
FdLibM \par
Copyright (C) 1993 by Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved\par
\par
Developed at SunSoft, a Sun Microsystems, Inc. business. Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software is freely granted, provided that this notice is preserved. \par
-------------------------------------\par
CoolServlets.com\par
The Program may include CS CodeViewer 1.0. This software is Copyright 1999 by CoolServlets.com.\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
Neither name of CoolServlets.com nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY COOLSERVLETS.COM AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
---------------------------------------------------\par
 Wily Technology:  Portions of the source code in the java.lang.instrument.Instrumentation component are  Copyright 2003 Wily Technology, Inc.\par
\par
----------------------------------------------------\par
Eastman Kodak:    Portions of this Program are Copyright Eastman Kodak Company 1992\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------\par
Lucida fonts:   Lucida is a registered trademark or trademark of Bigelow & Holmes in the U.S. and other countries.\par
\par
-------------------------------------------------\par
JPEG:   This product is based in part on the work of the Independent JPEG group.\par
\par
==================== END OF JRE NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
\par
Javassist\par
=========\par
\par
The Program includes Javassist which IBM obtained under \par
the terms and conditions of the following license.\par
\par
 MOZILLA PUBLIC LICENSE\par
                                Version 1.1\par
\par
                           1. Definitions.\par
\par
     1.0.1. "Commercial Use" means distribution or otherwise making the\par
     Covered Code available to a third party.\par
\par
     1.1. "Contributor" means each entity that creates or contributes to\par
     the creation of Modifications.\par
\par
     1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Original\par
     Code, prior Modifications used by a Contributor, and the Modifications\par
     made by that particular Contributor.\par
\par
     1.3. "Covered Code" means the Original Code or Modifications or the\par
     combination of the Original Code and Modifications, in each case\par
     including portions thereof.\par
\par
     1.4. "Electronic Distribution Mechanism" means a mechanism generally\par
     accepted in the software development community for the electronic\par
     transfer of data.\par
\par
     1.5. "Executable" means Covered Code in any form other than Source\par
     Code.\par
\par
     1.6. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity identified\par
     as the Initial Developer in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit\par
     A.\par
\par
     1.7. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Code or\par
     portions thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.\par
\par
     1.8. "License" means this document.\par
\par
     1.8.1. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum\par
     extent possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or\par
     subsequently acquired, any and all of the rights conveyed herein.\par
\par
     1.9. "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from the\par
     substance or structure of either the Original Code or any previous\par
     Modifications. When Covered Code is released as a series of files, a\par
     Modification is:\par
          A. Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file\par
          containing Original Code or previous Modifications.\par
\par
          B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or\par
          previous Modifications.\par
\par
     1.10. "Original Code" means Source Code of computer software code\par
     which is described in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit A as\par
     Original Code, and which, at the time of its release under this\par
     License is not already Covered Code governed by this License.\par
\par
     1.10.1. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or\par
     hereafter acquired, including without limitation,  method, process,\par
     and apparatus claims, in any patent Licensable by grantor.\par
\par
     1.11. "Source Code" means the preferred form of the Covered Code for\par
     making modifications to it, including all modules it contains, plus\par
     any associated interface definition files, scripts used to control\par
     compilation and installation of an Executable, or source code\par
     differential comparisons against either the Original Code or another\par
     well known, available Covered Code of the Contributor's choice. The\par
     Source Code can be in a compressed or archival form, provided the\par
     appropriate decompression or de-archiving software is widely available\par
     for no charge.\par
\par
     1.12. "You" (or "Your")  means an individual or a legal entity\par
     exercising rights under, and complying with all of the terms of, this\par
     License or a future version of this License issued under Section 6.1.\par
     For legal entities, "You" includes any entity which controls, is\par
     controlled by, or is under common control with You. For purposes of\par
     this definition, "control" means (a) the power, direct or indirect,\par
     to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by\par
     contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent\par
     (50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such\par
     entity.\par
\par
2. Source Code License.\par
\par
     2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.\par
     The Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,\par
     non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual property\par
     claims:\par
          (a)  under intellectual property rights (other than patent or\par
          trademark) Licensable by Initial Developer to use, reproduce,\par
          modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Original\par
          Code (or portions thereof) with or without Modifications, and/or\par
          as part of a Larger Work; and\par
\par
          (b) under Patents Claims infringed by the making, using or\par
          selling of Original Code, to make, have made, use, practice,\par
          sell, and offer for sale, and/or otherwise dispose of the\par
          Original Code (or portions thereof).\par
\par
          (c) the licenses granted in this Section 2.1(a) and (b) are\par
          effective on the date Initial Developer first distributes\par
          Original Code under the terms of this License.\par
\par
          (d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is\par
          granted: 1) for code that You delete from the Original Code; 2)\par
          separate from the Original Code;  or 3) for infringements caused\par
          by: i) the modification of the Original Code or ii) the\par
          combination of the Original Code with other software or devices.\par
\par
     2.2. Contributor Grant.\par
     Subject to third party intellectual property claims, each Contributor\par
     hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license\par
\par
          (a)  under intellectual property rights (other than patent or\par
          trademark) Licensable by Contributor, to use, reproduce, modify,\par
          display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Modifications\par
          created by such Contributor (or portions thereof) either on an\par
          unmodified basis, with other Modifications, as Covered Code\par
          and/or as part of a Larger Work; and\par
\par
          (b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or\par
          selling of  Modifications made by that Contributor either alone\par
          and/or in combination with its Contributor Version (or portions\par
          of such combination), to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have\par
          made, and/or otherwise dispose of: 1) Modifications made by that\par
          Contributor (or portions thereof); and 2) the combination of\par
          Modifications made by that Contributor with its Contributor\par
          Version (or portions of such combination).\par
\par
          (c) the licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are\par
          effective on the date Contributor first makes Commercial Use of\par
          the Covered Code.\par
\par
          (d)    Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is\par
          granted: 1) for any code that Contributor has deleted from the\par
          Contributor Version; 2)  separate from the Contributor Version;\par
          3)  for infringements caused by: i) third party modifications of\par
          Contributor Version or ii)  the combination of Modifications made\par
          by that Contributor with other software  (except as part of the\par
          Contributor Version) or other devices; or 4) under Patent Claims\par
          infringed by Covered Code in the absence of Modifications made by\par
          that Contributor.\par
\par
3. Distribution Obligations.\par
\par
     3.1. Application of License.\par
     The Modifications which You create or to which You contribute are\par
     governed by the terms of this License, including without limitation\par
     Section 2.2. The Source Code version of Covered Code may be\par
     distributed only under the terms of this License or a future version\par
     of this License released under Section 6.1, and You must include a\par
     copy of this License with every copy of the Source Code You\par
     distribute. You may not offer or impose any terms on any Source Code\par
     version that alters or restricts the applicable version of this\par
     License or the recipients' rights hereunder. However, You may include\par
     an additional document offering the additional rights described in\par
     Section 3.5.\par
\par
     3.2. Availability of Source Code.\par
     Any Modification which You create or to which You contribute must be\par
     made available in Source Code form under the terms of this License\par
     either on the same media as an Executable version or via an accepted\par
     Electronic Distribution Mechanism to anyone to whom you made an\par
     Executable version available; and if made available via Electronic\par
     Distribution Mechanism, must remain available for at least twelve (12)\par
     months after the date it initially became available, or at least six\par
     (6) months after a subsequent version of that particular Modification\par
     has been made available to such recipients. You are responsible for\par
     ensuring that the Source Code version remains available even if the\par
     Electronic Distribution Mechanism is maintained by a third party.\par
\par
     3.3. Description of Modifications.\par
     You must cause all Covered Code to which You contribute to contain a\par
     file documenting the changes You made to create that Covered Code and\par
     the date of any change. You must include a prominent statement that\par
     the Modification is derived, directly or indirectly, from Original\par
     Code provided by the Initial Developer and including the name of the\par
     Initial Developer in (a) the Source Code, and (b) in any notice in an\par
     Executable version or related documentation in which You describe the\par
     origin or ownership of the Covered Code.\par
\par
     3.4. Intellectual Property Matters\par
          (a) Third Party Claims.\par
          If Contributor has knowledge that a license under a third party's\par
          intellectual property rights is required to exercise the rights\par
          granted by such Contributor under Sections 2.1 or 2.2,\par
          Contributor must include a text file with the Source Code\par
          distribution titled "LEGAL" which describes the claim and the\par
          party making the claim in sufficient detail that a recipient will\par
          know whom to contact. If Contributor obtains such knowledge after\par
          the Modification is made available as described in Section 3.2,\par
          Contributor shall promptly modify the LEGAL file in all copies\par
          Contributor makes available thereafter and shall take other steps\par
          (such as notifying appropriate mailing lists or newsgroups)\par
          reasonably calculated to inform those who received the Covered\par
          Code that new knowledge has been obtained.\par
\par
          (b) Contributor APIs.\par
          If Contributor's Modifications include an application programming\par
          interface and Contributor has knowledge of patent licenses which\par
          are reasonably necessary to implement that API, Contributor must\par
          also include this information in the LEGAL file.\par
\par
               (c)    Representations.\par
          Contributor represents that, except as disclosed pursuant to\par
          Section 3.4(a) above, Contributor believes that Contributor's\par
          Modifications are Contributor's original creation(s) and/or\par
          Contributor has sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by\par
          this License.\par
\par
     3.5. Required Notices.\par
     You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file of the Source\par
     Code.  If it is not possible to put such notice in a particular Source\par
     Code file due to its structure, then You must include such notice in a\par
     location (such as a relevant directory) where a user would be likely\par
     to look for such a notice.  If You created one or more Modification(s)\par
     You may add your name as a Contributor to the notice described in\par
     Exhibit A.  You must also duplicate this License in any documentation\par
     for the Source Code where You describe recipients' rights or ownership\par
     rights relating to Covered Code.  You may choose to offer, and to\par
     charge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or liability\par
     obligations to one or more recipients of Covered Code. However, You\par
     may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial\par
     Developer or any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear than\par
     any such warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligation is\par
     offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial\par
     Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by the\par
     Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of warranty,\par
     support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.\par
\par
     3.6. Distribution of Executable Versions.\par
     You may distribute Covered Code in Executable form only if the\par
     requirements of Section 3.1-3.5 have been met for that Covered Code,\par
     and if You include a notice stating that the Source Code version of\par
     the Covered Code is available under the terms of this License,\par
     including a description of how and where You have fulfilled the\par
     obligations of Section 3.2. The notice must be conspicuously included\par
     in any notice in an Executable version, related documentation or\par
     collateral in which You describe recipients' rights relating to the\par
     Covered Code. You may distribute the Executable version of Covered\par
     Code or ownership rights under a license of Your choice, which may\par
     contain terms different from this License, provided that You are in\par
     compliance with the terms of this License and that the license for the\par
     Executable version does not attempt to limit or alter the recipient's\par
     rights in the Source Code version from the rights set forth in this\par
     License. If You distribute the Executable version under a different\par
     license You must make it absolutely clear that any terms which differ\par
     from this License are offered by You alone, not by the Initial\par
     Developer or any Contributor. You hereby agree to indemnify the\par
     Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by\par
     the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of any such\par
     terms You offer.\par
\par
     3.7. Larger Works.\par
     You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with other code\par
     not governed by the terms of this License and distribute the Larger\par
     Work as a single product. In such a case, You must make sure the\par
     requirements of this License are fulfilled for the Covered Code.\par
\par
4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation.\par
\par
     If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this\par
     License with respect to some or all of the Covered Code due to\par
     statute, judicial order, or regulation then You must: (a) comply with\par
     the terms of this License to the maximum extent possible; and (b)\par
     describe the limitations and the code they affect. Such description\par
     must be included in the LEGAL file described in Section 3.4 and must\par
     be included with all distributions of the Source Code. Except to the\par
     extent prohibited by statute or regulation, such description must be\par
     sufficiently detailed for a recipient of ordinary skill to be able to\par
     understand it.\par
\par
5. Application of this License.\par
\par
     This License applies to code to which the Initial Developer has\par
     attached the notice in Exhibit A and to related Covered Code.\par
\par
6. Versions of the License.\par
\par
     6.1. New Versions.\par
     Netscape Communications Corporation ("Netscape") may publish revised\par
     and/or new versions of the License from time to time. Each version\par
     will be given a distinguishing version number.\par
\par
     6.2. Effect of New Versions.\par
     Once Covered Code has been published under a particular version of the\par
     License, You may always continue to use it under the terms of that\par
     version. You may also choose to use such Covered Code under the terms\par
     of any subsequent version of the License published by Netscape. No one\par
     other than Netscape has the right to modify the terms applicable to\par
     Covered Code created under this License.\par
\par
     6.3. Derivative Works.\par
     If You create or use a modified version of this License (which you may\par
     only do in order to apply it to code which is not already Covered Code\par
     governed by this License), You must (a) rename Your license so that\par
     the phrases "Mozilla", "MOZILLAPL", "MOZPL", "Netscape",\par
     "MPL", "NPL" or any confusingly similar phrase do not appear in your\par
     license (except to note that your license differs from this License)\par
     and (b) otherwise make it clear that Your version of the license\par
     contains terms which differ from the Mozilla Public License and\par
     Netscape Public License. (Filling in the name of the Initial\par
     Developer, Original Code or Contributor in the notice described in\par
     Exhibit A shall not of themselves be deemed to be modifications of\par
     this License.)\par
\par
7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.\par
\par
     COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS,\par
     WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,\par
     WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED CODE IS FREE OF\par
     DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING.\par
     THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED CODE\par
     IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED CODE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT,\par
     YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE\par
     COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER\par
     OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF\par
     ANY COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.\par
\par
8. TERMINATION.\par
\par
     8.1.  This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate\par
     automatically if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to cure\par
     such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All\par
     sublicenses to the Covered Code which are properly granted shall\par
     survive any termination of this License. Provisions which, by their\par
     nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this License\par
     shall survive.\par
\par
     8.2.  If You initiate litigation by asserting a patent infringement\par
     claim (excluding declatory judgment actions) against Initial Developer\par
     or a Contributor (the Initial Developer or Contributor against whom\par
     You file such action is referred to as "Participant")  alleging that:\par
\par
     (a)  such Participant's Contributor Version directly or indirectly\par
     infringes any patent, then any and all rights granted by such\par
     Participant to You under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this License\par
     shall, upon 60 days notice from Participant terminate prospectively,\par
     unless if within 60 days after receipt of notice You either: (i)\par
     agree in writing to pay Participant a mutually agreeable reasonable\par
     royalty for Your past and future use of Modifications made by such\par
     Participant, or (ii) withdraw Your litigation claim with respect to\par
     the Contributor Version against such Participant.  If within 60 days\par
     of notice, a reasonable royalty and payment arrangement are not\par
     mutually agreed upon in writing by the parties or the litigation claim\par
     is not withdrawn, the rights granted by Participant to You under\par
     Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 automatically terminate at the expiration of\par
     the 60 day notice period specified above.\par
\par
     (b)  any software, hardware, or device, other than such Participant's\par
     Contributor Version, directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then\par
     any rights granted to You by such Participant under Sections 2.1(b)\par
     and 2.2(b) are revoked effective as of the date You first made, used,\par
     sold, distributed, or had made, Modifications made by that\par
     Participant.\par
\par
     8.3.  If You assert a patent infringement claim against Participant\par
     alleging that such Participant's Contributor Version directly or\par
     indirectly infringes any patent where such claim is resolved (such as\par
     by license or settlement) prior to the initiation of patent\par
     infringement litigation, then the reasonable value of the licenses\par
     granted by such Participant under Sections 2.1 or 2.2 shall be taken\par
     into account in determining the amount or value of any payment or\par
     license.\par
\par
     8.4.  In the event of termination under Sections 8.1 or 8.2 above,\par
     all end user license agreements (excluding distributors and resellers)\par
     which have been validly granted by You or any distributor hereunder\par
     prior to termination shall survive termination.\par
\par
9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.\par
\par
     UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT\par
     (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE INITIAL\par
     DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED CODE,\par
     OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR\par
     ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY\par
     CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL,\par
     WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER\par
     COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN\par
     INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF\par
     LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY\par
     RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW\par
     PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE\par
     EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO\par
     THIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.\par
\par
10. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.\par
\par
     The Covered Code is a "commercial item," as that term is defined in\par
     48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial computer\par
     software" and "commercial computer software documentation," as such\par
     terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48\par
     C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995),\par
     all U.S. Government End Users acquire Covered Code with only those\par
     rights set forth herein.\par
\par
11. MISCELLANEOUS.\par
\par
     This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject\par
     matter hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be\par
     unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent\par
     necessary to make it enforceable. This License shall be governed by\par
     California law provisions (except to the extent applicable law, if\par
     any, provides otherwise), excluding its conflict-of-law provisions.\par
     With respect to disputes in which at least one party is a citizen of,\par
     or an entity chartered or registered to do business in the United\par
     States of America, any litigation relating to this License shall be\par
     subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Courts of the Northern\par
     District of California, with venue lying in Santa Clara County,\par
     California, with the losing party responsible for costs, including\par
     without limitation, court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and\par
     expenses. The application of the United Nations Convention on\par
     Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded.\par
     Any law or regulation which provides that the language of a contract\par
     shall be construed against the drafter shall not apply to this\par
     License.\par
\par
12. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.\par
\par
     As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is\par
     responsible for claims and damages arising, directly or indirectly,\par
     out of its utilization of rights under this License and You agree to\par
     work with Initial Developer and Contributors to distribute such\par
     responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing herein is intended or\par
     shall be deemed to constitute any admission of liability.\par
\par
13. MULTIPLE-LICENSED CODE.\par
\par
     Initial Developer may designate portions of the Covered Code as\par
     "Multiple-Licensed".  "Multiple-Licensed" means that the Initial\par
     Developer permits you to utilize portions of the Covered Code under\par
     Your choice of the NPL or the alternative licenses, if any, specified\par
     by the Initial Developer in the file described in Exhibit A.\par
\par
EXHIBIT A -Mozilla Public License.\par
\par
     ``The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License\par
     Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in\par
     compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at\par
     http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/\par
\par
     Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"\par
     basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the\par
     License for the specific language governing rights and limitations\par
     under the License.\par
\par
     The Original Code is ______________________________________.\par
\par
     The Initial Developer of the Original Code is ________________________.\par
     Portions created by ______________________ are Copyright (C) ______\par
     _______________________. All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
     Contributor(s): ______________________________________.\par
\par
     Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms\par
     of the _____ license (the  "[___] License"), in which case the\par
     provisions of [______] License are applicable instead of those\par
     above.  If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only\par
     under the terms of the [____] License and not to allow others to use\par
     your version of this file under the MPL, indicate your decision by\par
     deleting  the provisions above and replace  them with the notice and\par
     other provisions required by the [___] License.  If you do not delete\par
     the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file\par
     under either the MPL or the [___] License."\par
\par
     [NOTE: The text of this Exhibit A may differ slightly from the text of\par
     the notices in the Source Code files of the Original Code. You should\par
     use the text of this Exhibit A rather than the text found in the\par
     Original Code Source Code for Your Modifications.]\par
\par
==================== END OF JAVASSIST NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
\par
IBM(R) SDK, Java(TM) Technology Edition, Version 6.0\par
====================================================\par
The following notice is provided with respect to the IBM Java SDK/JRE:  \par
\par
Please refer to the Java Notices and Information file at the following location: \par
<PRODUCT_HOME>/java/notices.txt \par
\par
==================== END OF JAVA NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
\par
Perl Compatible Regular Expression (PCRE)\par
=========================================\par
\par
The Program includes \par
PCRE which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the following license.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\par
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
    * Neither the name of the University of Cambridge nor the name of Google\par
      Inc. nor the names of their contributors may be used to endorse or\par
      promote products derived from this software without specific prior\par
      written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS \par
AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A \par
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT \par
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE \par
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, \par
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, \par
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS \par
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS \par
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY \par
OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, \par
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)\par
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, \par
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
==================== END OF PCRE NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
\par
SERVICE COMPONENT ARCHITECTURE SPECIFICATION\par
============================================\par
\par
The Program includes certain information \par
related to the Service Component Architecture Specification. \par
\par
Copyright Notice\par
Ac Copyright BEA Systems, Inc., Cape Clear Software, International Business Machines Corp, Interface21, IONA Technologies, Oracle, Primeton Technologies, Progress Software, Red Hat, Rogue Wave Software, SAP AG., Siemens AG., Software AG., Sun Microsystems, Inc., Sybase Inc., TIBCO Software Inc., 2005, 2007. All rights reserved.\par
License\par
The Service Component Architecture Specification is being provided by the copyright holders under the following license. By using and/or copying this work, you agree that you have read, understood and will comply with the following terms and conditions:\par
Permission to copy, display and distribute the Service Component Architecture Specification and/or portions thereof, without modification, in any medium without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies of the Service Component Architecture Specification, or portions thereof, that you make:\par
1.\tab A link or URL to the Service Component Architecture Specification at this location:\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba http://www.osoa.org/display/Main/Service+Component+Architecture+Specifications\par
2.\tab The full text of the copyright notice as shown in the Service Component Architecture Specification.\par
BEA, Cape Clear, IBM, Interface21, IONA, Oracle, Primeton, Progress Software, Red Hat, Rogue Wave, SAP, Siemens, Software AG., Sun, Sybase, TIBCO (collectively, the \'c6\rquote ?oAuthors\'c6\rquote ??) agree to grant you a royalty-free license, under reasonable, non-discriminatory terms and conditions to patents that they deem necessary to implement the Service Component Architecture Specification.\par
THE Service Component Architecture SPECIFICATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND THE AUTHORS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THIS SPECIFICATION AND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF ITS CONTENTS, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR TITLE.\par
THE AUTHORS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE Service Components Architecture SPECIFICATION.\par
The name and trademarks of the Authors may NOT be used in any manner, including advertising or publicity pertaining to the Service Component Architecture Specification or its contents without specific, written prior permission. Title to copyright in the Service Component Architecture Specification will at all times remain with the Authors.\par
No other rights are granted by implication, estoppel or otherwise.\par
\par
==================== END OF SERVICE COMPONENT ARCHITECTURE SPECIFICATION NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
\par
XMLPULL\par
=======\par
 \par
XMLPULL API IS FREE\par
-------------------\par
\par
All of the XMLPULL API source code, compiled code, and documentation \par
contained in this distribution *except* for tests (see separate LICENSE_TESTS.txt)\par
are in the Public Domain.\par
\par
XMLPULL API comes with NO WARRANTY or guarantee of fitness for any purpose.\par
\par
Initial authors:\par
\par
  Stefan Haustein\par
  Aleksander Slominski\par
\par
2001-12-12\par
==================== END OF XMLPULL NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
==========================================================================\par
\par
EXPAT CODE. \par
===========\par
\par
The Program includes the following software which is\par
Copyright (c) 1998, 1999, 2000 Thai Open Source Software Center Ltd and Clark\par
Cooper\par
Copyright (c) 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 Expat maintainers.\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Expat\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Expat 1.95.8\par
\par
IBM obtained the Expat Software under the terms and\par
conditions of the following license:\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining\par
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the\par
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including\par
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,\par
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to\par
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to\par
the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included\par
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,\par
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.\par
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY\par
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,\par
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE\par
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
============ END OF EXPAT NOTICES AND INFORMATION ================\par
==========================================================================\par
FASTCGI\par
=======\par
\par
FASTCGI:  The Program is accompanied by FASTCGI software.   IBM                 \par
obtained the FASTCGI software under the terms and conditions of the             \par
following license:                                                              \par
                                                                                \par
FastCGI License                                                           \par
This FastCGI application library source and object code (the                    \par
"Software") and its documentation (the "Documentation") are                     \par
copyrighted by Open Market, Inc ("Open Market").  The following terms           \par
apply to all files associated with the Software and Documentation               \par
unless explicitly disclaimed in individual files.                               \par
                                                                                \par
Open Market permits you to use, copy, modify, distribute, and license           \par
this Software and the Documentation solely for the purpose of                   \par
implementing the FastCGI specification defined by Open Market or                \par
derivative specifications publicly endorsed by Open Market and                  \par
promulgated by an open standards organization and for no other                  \par
purpose, provided that existing copyright notices are retained in all           \par
copies and that this notice is included verbatim in any distributions.          \par
                                                                                \par
No written agreement, license, or royalty fee is required for any of            \par
the authorized uses.  Modifications to this Software and Documentation          \par
may be copyrighted by their authors and need not follow the licensing           \par
terms described here, but the modified Software and Documentation must          \par
be used for the sole purpose of implementing the FastCGI specification          \par
defined by Open Market or derivative specifications publicly endorsed           \par
by Open Market and promulgated by an open standards organization and            \par
for no other purpose.  If modifications to this Software and                    \par
Documentation have new licensing terms, the new terms must protect              \par
Open Market's proprietary rights in the Software and Documentation to           \par
the same extent as these licensing terms and must be clearly indicated          \par
on the first page of each file where they apply.                                \par
                                                                                \par
Open Market shall retain all right, title and interest in and to the            \par
Software and Documentation, including without limitation all patent,            \par
copyright, trade secret and other proprietary rights.                           \par
                                                                                \par
OPEN MARKET MAKES NO EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY \par
WITH RESPECT TO THE  SOFTWARE OR THE DOCUMENTATION,\par
INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY             \par
WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS \par
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  IN          \par
NO EVENT SHALL OPEN MARKET BE LIABLE TO \par
YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR ANY        \par
DAMAGES ARISING FROM OR RELATING TO THIS S\par
OFTWARE OR THE                        \par
DOCUMENTATION, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, \par
ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR        \par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR SIMILAR DAMAGES, \par
INCLUDING LOST PROFITS OR             \par
LOST DATA, EVEN IF OPEN MARKET HAS BEEN \par
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF           \par
SUCH DAMAGES.  THE SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION \par
ARE PROVIDED "AS IS".             \par
OPEN MARKET HAS NO LIABILITY IN CONTRACT, \par
TORT, NEGLIGENCE OR                   \par
OTHERWISE ARISING OUT OF THIS SOFTWARE OR \par
THE DOCUMENTATION.                    \par
                                                                               \par
==================== END OF FASTCGI NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
==========================================================================\par
Firebug\par
=======\par
Firebug Lite Files.  The Program includes all or portions of the following software which was obtained under the terms and conditions of the BSD License.\par
\par
firebug.html, firebug.js, errIcon.png, infoIcon.png, warningIcon.png:\par
Distributed under the terms of the BSD License (see below)\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Joe Hewitt\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this\par
\tab list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,\par
\tab this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation\par
\tab and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
  * Neither the name of the Dojo Foundation nor the names of its contributors\par
\tab may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software\par
\tab without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND\par
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED\par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR\par
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER\par
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,\par
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE\par
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
========== END OF Firebug NOTICES AND INFORMATION ===========\par
==========================================================================\par
FreeBSD 1.72\par
============\par
\par
Copyright 1992-2011 The FreeBSD Project. All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
   1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
   2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE FREEBSD PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FREEBSD PROJECT OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
The views and conclusions contained in the software and documentation are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing official policies, either expressed or implied, of the FreeBSD Project.\par
\par
================== END OF FreeBSD 1.72 NOTICES AND INFORMATION ==================\par
==========================================================================\par
\par
HSQL CODE.  The Program includes the following HSQL Development Group software:\par
===============================================================================\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba HSQLDB V1.7.1\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from the HSQL Development Group:  \par
\par
/* Copyright (c) 2001-2002, The HSQL Development Group\par
 * All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions  are met:\par
 *\par
 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this\par
 * list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,\par
 * this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation\par
 * and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 *\par
 * Neither the name of the HSQL Development Group nor the names of its\par
 * contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this\par
 * software without specific prior written permission.\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"\par
 * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
 * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL HSQL DEVELOPMENT GROUP, HSQLDB.ORG, \par
 * OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, \par
 * EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, \par
 * PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;\par
 * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND\par
 * ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT\par
 * (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS\par
 * SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 */\par
\par
============= END OF HSQL NOTICES AND INFORMATION  ===============\par
\par
\par
==========================================================================\par
\par
ICU CODE: \par
=========\par
\par
The Program includes all or portions of the following software which IBM\par
obtained under the terms and conditions of the following license(s):\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba ICU\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba ICU4C 3.2\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba ICU4C 3.8\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba ICU4C 4.4\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba ICU4J\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba ICU4J 3.6.1\par
\par
ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1995-2006 International Business Machines Corporation and others\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a\par
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the\par
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including\par
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,\par
distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons\par
to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above\par
copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of\par
the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this\par
permission notice appear in supporting documentation.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS\par
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT\par
OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR\par
HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL\par
INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING\par
FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,\par
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION\par
WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be\par
used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use\par
or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization\par
of the copyright holder.\par
\par
All trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned herein are the property of\par
their respective owners.\par
\par
UNICODE, INC. LICENSE AGREEMENT - DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE\par
\par
Unicode Data Files include all data files under the directories\par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/ and http://www.unicode.org/reports/.\par
Unicode Software includes any source code under the directories\par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/ and http://www.unicode.org/reports/.\par
\par
NOTICE TO USER: Carefully read the following legal agreement. BY DOWNLOADING,\par
INSTALLING, COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING UNICODE INC.'S DATA FILES ("DATA FILES"),\par
AND/OR SOFTWARE ("SOFTWARE"), YOU UNEQUIVOCALLY ACCEPT, AND AGREE TO BE BOUND\par
BY, ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE,\par
DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, DISTRIBUTE OR USE THE DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.\par
\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1991-2004 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved. Distributed under the\par
Terms of Use in http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of\par
the Unicode data files and associated documentation (the "Data Files") or\par
Unicode software and associated documentation (the "Software") to deal in the\par
Data Files or Software without restriction, including without limitation the\par
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of\par
the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the Data Files or\par
Software are furnished to do so, provided that (a) the above copyright notice(s)\par
and this permission notice appear in all copies of the Data Files or Software,\par
(b) both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in\par
associated documentation, and (c) there is clear notice in each modified Data\par
File or in the Software as well as in the documentation associated with the Data\par
File(s) or Software that the data or software has been modified.\par
\par
THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF \par
ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE \par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND \par
NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT \par
HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY \par
SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER \par
RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF \par
CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN \par
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA FILES OR\par
SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be\par
used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in\par
these Data Files or Software without prior written authorization of the\par
copyright holder.\par
\par
============ END OF ICU CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION =============\par
==========================================================================\par
\par
IEHS 3.4.3: \par
===========\par
\par
The following subset of open source software was obtained from the Eclipse Foundation: Eclipse Help System, Jetty,Lucene,Lucene HTML Parser,MX4J (herein collectively referred to as "Eclipse Code"). Notices and important information, including instructions for obtaining source code, for the Eclipse Code may be found in associated \'c6\rquote ?oabout.html\'c6\rquote ?? files (\'c6\rquote ?oAbout Files\'c6\rquote ??) that accompany the Eclipse Code. These About Files are provided for informational purposes only, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary therein, your use of such Eclipse Code shall be governed by the terms of the IBM end-user license agreement.\par
\par
============ END OF IEHS 3.4.3 NOTICES AND INFORMATION =============\par
==========================================================================\par
\par
IPL CODE (IBM Public License)\par
=============================\par
\par
The Program includes all or portions of the following software which is subject to the IBM Public License ("IPL Code").  This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many individuals in the open source community:\par
\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba JT Open 5.1.1\par
* IBM Toolbox for Java\par
\par
You may download the source version of this component at:\par
http://sourceforge.net/projects/jt400/\par
\par
The following terms apply to the IPL Code which is licensed by IBM under the IBM Public License ("IPL").  The Contributors (as defined in the IPL) of the IPL Code have provided their Contributions (as defined in the IPL) to IBM, and to you as part of the IPL code, "as is" without warranty or condition of any kind, either express, implied or statutory, including, but not limited to, any implied warranties or conditions of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement. In no event will the Contributors be liable for any lost profits, lost savings, lost revenue, lost data, or for any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages, even if IBM or the Contributors have been advised of the possibility of such losses or damages.  Any provisions in the IBM license agreement for the Program that relate to the IPL Code and that differ from the IPL are offered by IBM alone and not by any other party, including, without limitation, any contributor.  You may download the source code version of the IPL Code as indicated above.  \par
\par
============== END OF IPL CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION ================\par
==========================================================================\par
JACL\par
====\par
\par
\par
This program contains the following versions of JACL:\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba JACL\par
\par
\par
The Program includes Jacl, consisting of the <was_install_root>\\lib\\jacl.jar and <was_install_root>\\lib\\tcljava.jar. \par
IBM obtained this software code under the terms and conditions reproduced \par
below, and the Jacl software is provided to you under these terms and \par
conditions. \par
\par
1) Sun Microsystems License \par
\par
License Terms and Conditions\par
\par
SUN MICROSYSTEMS, INC. THROUGH ITS SUN MICROSYSTEMS LABORATORIES DIVISION \par
("SUN") WILL LICENSE THIS SOFTWARE AND THE ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTATION TO \par
YOU (a "Licensee") ONLY ON YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF ALL THE TERMS SET FORTH BELOW.\par
Sun grants Licensee a non-exclusive, royalty-free right to download, \par
install, compile, use, copy and distribute the Software, modify or otherwise \par
create derivative works from the Software (each, a "Modification") and \par
distribute any Modification in source code and/or binary code form to its \par
customers with a license agreement containing these terms and noting that \par
the Software has been modified. The Software is copyrighted by Sun and \par
other third parties and Licensee shall retain and reproduce all copyright \par
and other notices presently on the Software. As between Sun and Licensee, \par
Sun is the sole owner of all rights in and to the Software other than the \par
limited rights granted to Licensee herein; Licensee will own its \par
odifications, expressly subject to Sun's continuing ownership of the \par
Software. Licensee will, at its expense, defend and indemnify Sun and its \par
licensors from and against any third party claims, including costs and \par
reasonable attorneys' fees, and be wholly responsible for any liabilities \par
arising out of or related to Licensee's development, use or distribution \par
of the Software or Modifications. Any distribution of the Software and \par
Modifications must comply with all applicable United States export control \par
laws.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS BEING PROVIDED TO LICENSEE "AS IS" AND ALL EXPRESS OR \par
IMPLIED CONDITIONS AND WARRANTIES, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT, ARE \par
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT WILL SUN BE LIABLE HEREUNDER FOR ANY DIRECT DAMAGES \par
OR ANY INDIRECT, PUNITIVE, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF \par
ANY KIND.\par
\par
**********************************\par
2) University of California License \par
Portions of Jacl and Tcl Blend are\par
Copyright (c) 1997-1999 The Regents of the University of California.\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, without written agreement and without license \par
or royalty fees, to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its \par
documentation for any purpose, provided that the above copyright notice and \par
the following two paragraphs appear in all copies of this software.\par
\par
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR \par
DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING \par
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF THE UNIVERSITY \par
OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, I\par
NCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND \par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN \par
"AS IS" BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE \par
MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.\par
\par
============ END OF JACL NOTICES AND INFORMATION =================\par
==========================================================================\par
JCUP\par
====\par
\par
JCUP Parser Generator. The Program includes JCUP Parser Generator which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the following license.\par
 \par
CUP Parser Generator Copyright Notice, License, and Disclaimer\par
Copyright 1996-1999 by Scott Hudson, Frank Flannery, C. Scott Ananian\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both the copyright notice and this permission notice and warranty disclaimer appear in supporting documentation, and that the names of the authors or their employers not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written prior permission.\par
\par
The authors and their employers disclaim all warranties with regard to this software, including all implied warranties of merchantability and fitness. In no event shall the authors or their employers be liable for any special, indirect or consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with the use or performance of this software.\par
This is an open source license. It is also GPL-Compatible (see entry for "Standard ML of New Jersey"). The portions of CUP output which are hard-coded into the CUP source code are (naturally) covered by this same license, as is the CUP runtime code linked with the generated parser.\par
\par
Java is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc. References to the Java programming language in relation to JLex are not meant to imply that Sun endorses this product. \par
\par
============ END OF JCUP PARSER GENERATOR CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION =================\par
\par
==========================================================================\par
JSR 235\par
=======\par
\par
The Program includes all or portions of the following \par
software which was obtained under the terms and conditions of the \par
License for the Service Data Objects JavaDoc and Interface Definition files\par
\par
\par
License for the Service Data Objects JavaDoc and Interface Definition files.\par
\par
The Service Data Objects JavaDoc and Interface Definition files are being provided by the copyright holders under the following license. By using and/or copying this work, you agree that you have read, understood and will comply with the following terms and conditions:\par
\par
Permission to copy, display, make derivative works of and distribute the Service Data Objects JavaDoc and Interface Definition files (the "Artifacts") in any medium without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies of the Artifacts, or portions thereof, that you make:\par
\par
1. A link or URL to the Artifacts at this location:\par
http://www.jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=235 \par
\par
2. The full text of this copyright notice as shown in the Artifacts.\par
\par
THE ARTIFACTS ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHORS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THE ARTIFACTS AND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THEIR CONTENTS, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS \par
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR TITLE. \par
\par
THE AUTHORS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE ARTIFACTS.\par
\par
The name and trademarks of the Authors may NOT be used in any manner, including advertising or publicity pertaining to the Service Data Objects Specification or its contents without specific, written prior permission. Title to copyright in the Service Data Objects Specification will at all times remain with the Authors.\par
\par
No other rights are granted by implication, estoppel or otherwise.\par
\par
Revision level 1.2, last updated on 2009/01/13\par
Changed the URL of the Artifacts.\par
Revision level 1.1, last updated on 2007/11/19 \par
\par
==================== END OF JSR 235 NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
\par
==========================================================================\par
Java 1.7 is included with this product.  \par
=======================================\par
\par
The Java notices are located at the following locations:\par
\par
For the TSM Windows B/A Client: :\\Program Files\\Tivoli\\TSM\\baclient\\jvmxxxx\\docs\\content\\en\\notices.txt\par
\par
For the TSM VE Client: /opt/tivoli/tsm/tdpvmware/jre/Java70_Linux_notices.txt for Linux and :\\Program Files\\Tivoli\\TSM\\TDPVMware\\jre\\Java70_Windows_notices.txt or :\\Program Files(x86)\\Tivoli\\TSM\\TDPVMware\\jre\\Java70_Windows_notices.txt on Windows\par
\par
For the TSM Server:  /usr/ibm/common/acsi/jre/notices.txt for all UNIX and Linux and C:\\Program Files\\IBM\\Common\\acsi\\jre\\notices.txt or C:\\Program Files (x86)\\IBM\\Common\\acsi\\jre\\notices.txt on Windows.\par
\par
For FlashCopy Manager:  FCMVMware: /opt/tivoli/tsm/tdpvmware/fcm/jre/notices.txt, FCM AIX: /usr/tivoli/tsfcm/acs_xxxxxx/jre/notices.txt, FCM Linux, Solaris,and HPUX: /opt/tivoli/tsfcm/acs_xxxxx/jre/notices.txt\par
\par
Note: It is possible to customize the install location during the installation.  If that is done, then these notices will be located at the customized install locations.\par
\par
============ END OF Java 1.7 NOTICES AND INFORMATION =================\par
==========================================================================\par
Jaxen\par
=====\par
\par
The Program includes Jaxen which IBM obtained under \par
the terms and conditions of the following license.\par
 \par
 $Id: LICENSE.txt,v 1.5 2006/02/05 21:49:04 elharo Exp $\par
\par
 Copyright 2003-2006 The Werken Company. All Rights Reserved.\par
 \par
 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are\par
 met:\par
\par
  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
  * Neither the name of the Jaxen Project nor the names of its\par
    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived \par
    from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS \par
AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A \par
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL \par
THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE \par
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, \par
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, \par
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS \par
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS \par
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY \par
OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, \par
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING \par
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF \par
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
==================== END OF Jaxen NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
==========================================================================\par
Json.php\par
========\par
Json.php \'c6\rquote ?" is used in a number of test cases and redistributed under terms of the New BSD License.  Note that this content is not governed by the JSON license (good vs evil) from JSON.org (http://www.json.org/license.html). \par
copyright Ac  2005 Michal Migurski\par
\par
========= END OF Json.php NOTICES AND INFORMATION ===========\par
==========================================================================\par
\par
Jython\par
======\par
\par
The Program includes the following Jython software which is Copyright (c) 2000, Jython Developers. All rights reserved.\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Jython\par
\par
\par
IBM did not modify the Jython software and obtained it under the terms and conditions of the following license:   \par
\par
Copyright (c) 2000, Jython Developers    All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
 - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
 - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
 - Neither the name of the Jython Developers nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING   NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS  SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
================= END OF JYTHON NOTICES AND INFORMATION   ====================\par
==========================================================================\par
Kxml2\par
=====\par
\par
The Program includes all or portions of the following software which was obtained under the terms and conditions of the MIT License. \par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba\tab Kxml2 \par
\par
\par
dojox/lang/functional.js\par
Copyright (c) 2007 Oliver Steele\par
\par
util/buildscripts/jslib/packer/base2.js, Packer.js, Word.js\par
Copyright Ac 2007 Dean Edwards\par
\par
Dojox/highlight/_base2.js\par
Copyright Ac 2006 Ivan Sagalaev\par
\par
The MIT License\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
END OF MIT FILES NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
\par
==================== END OF Kxml2 NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
==========================================================================\par
Modifiable Third Party Code- GNU Library General Public License 2.0\par
===================================================================\par
\par
This Program includes some or all of the following Modifiable Third Party Code that IBM obtained under the GNU Lesser General Public License. For copies of the source code for this software, send an email to TSMOSREQ@us.ibm.com identifying the IBM Program  and the Modifiable Third Party Code for which you are requesting the source code.\par
\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba VDDK_5.1_GNU_Appendix\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba gnome keyring library headder 0.8.1\par
\par
\tab GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE\par
\tab                Version 2, June 1991\par
\par
 Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.\par
 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA\par
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies\par
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.\par
\par
[This is the first released version of the library GPL.  It is\par
 numbered 2 because it goes with version 2 of the ordinary GPL.]\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab     Preamble\par
\par
  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your\par
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public\par
Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change\par
free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.\par
\par
  This license, the Library General Public License, applies to some\par
specially designated Free Software Foundation software, and to any\par
other libraries whose authors decide to use it.  You can use it for\par
your libraries, too.\par
\par
  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not\par
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you\par
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for\par
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it\par
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it\par
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.\par
\par
  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid\par
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.\par
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if\par
you distribute copies of the library, or if you modify it.\par
\par
  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis\par
or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave\par
you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source\par
code.  If you link a program with the library, you must provide\par
complete object files to the recipients so that they can relink them\par
with the library, after making changes to the library and recompiling\par
it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.\par
\par
  Our method of protecting your rights has two steps: (1) copyright\par
the library, and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal\par
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.\par
\par
  Also, for each distributor's protection, we want to make certain\par
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free\par
library.  If the library is modified by someone else and passed on, we\par
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original\par
version, so that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on\par
the original authors' reputations.\par
\par
  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software\par
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that companies distributing free\par
software will individually obtain patent licenses, thus in effect\par
transforming the program into proprietary software.  To prevent this,\par
we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's\par
free use or not licensed at all.\par
\par
  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary\par
GNU General Public License, which was designed for utility programs.  This\par
license, the GNU Library General Public License, applies to certain\par
designated libraries.  This license is quite different from the ordinary\par
one; be sure to read it in full, and don't assume that anything in it is\par
the same as in the ordinary license.\par
\par
  The reason we have a separate public license for some libraries is that\par
they blur the distinction we usually make between modifying or adding to a\par
program and simply using it.  Linking a program with a library, without\par
changing the library, is in some sense simply using the library, and is\par
analogous to running a utility program or application program.  However, in\par
a textual and legal sense, the linked executable is a combined work, a\par
derivative of the original library, and the ordinary General Public License\par
treats it as such.\par
\par
  Because of this blurred distinction, using the ordinary General\par
Public License for libraries did not effectively promote software\par
sharing, because most developers did not use the libraries.  We\par
concluded that weaker conditions might promote sharing better.\par
\par
  However, unrestricted linking of non-free programs would deprive the\par
users of those programs of all benefit from the free status of the\par
libraries themselves.  This Library General Public License is intended to\par
permit developers of non-free programs to use free libraries, while\par
preserving your freedom as a user of such programs to change the free\par
libraries that are incorporated in them.  (We have not seen how to achieve\par
this as regards changes in header files, but we have achieved it as regards\par
changes in the actual functions of the Library.)  The hope is that this\par
will lead to faster development of free libraries.\par
\par
  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and\par
modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a\par
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The\par
former contains code derived from the library, while the latter only\par
works together with the library.\par
\par
  Note that it is possible for a library to be covered by the ordinary\par
General Public License rather than by this special one.\par
\par
\par
\tab\tab   GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE\par
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION\par
\par
  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library which\par
contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized\par
party saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Library\par
General Public License (also called "this License").  Each licensee is\par
addressed as "you".\par
\par
  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data\par
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs\par
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.\par
\par
  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work\par
which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the\par
Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under\par
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a\par
portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated\par
straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is\par
included without limitation in the term "modification".)\par
\par
  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for\par
making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means\par
all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated\par
interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation\par
and installation of the library.\par
\par
  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not\par
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of\par
running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from\par
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based\par
on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for\par
writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does\par
and what the program that uses the Library does.\par
  \par
  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's\par
complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that\par
you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an\par
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact\par
all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any\par
warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the\par
Library.\par
\par
  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,\par
and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a\par
fee.\par
\par
  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion\par
of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and\par
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1\par
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:\par
\par
    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.\par
\par
    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices\par
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.\par
\par
    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no\par
    charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.\par
\par
    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a\par
    table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses\par
    the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility\par
    is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that,\par
    in the event an application does not supply such function or\par
    table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of\par
    its purpose remains meaningful.\par
\par
    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has\par
    a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the\par
    application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any\par
    application-supplied function or table used by this function must\par
    be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square\par
    root function must still compute square roots.)\par
\par
These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If\par
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library,\par
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in\par
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those\par
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you\par
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based\par
on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of\par
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the\par
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote\par
it.\par
\par
Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest\par
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to\par
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or\par
collective works based on the Library.\par
\par
In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library\par
with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of\par
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under\par
the scope of this License.\par
\par
  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public\par
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do\par
this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so\par
that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2,\par
instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the\par
ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify\par
that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in\par
these notices.\par
\par
  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for\par
that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all\par
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.\par
\par
  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of\par
the Library into a program that is not a library.\par
\par
  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or\par
derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form\par
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany\par
it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which\par
must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a\par
medium customarily used for software interchange.\par
\par
  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy\par
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the\par
source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to\par
distribute the source code, even though third parties are not\par
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.\par
\par
  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the\par
Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or\par
linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a\par
work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and\par
therefore falls outside the scope of this License.\par
\par
  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library\par
creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it\par
contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the\par
library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License.\par
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.\par
\par
  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file\par
that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a\par
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not.\par
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be\par
linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The\par
threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.\par
\par
  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data\par
structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline\par
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object\par
file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative\par
work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the\par
Library will still fall under Section 6.)\par
\par
  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may\par
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.\par
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6,\par
whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.\par
\par
  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also compile or\par
link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a\par
work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work\par
under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit\par
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse\par
engineering for debugging such modifications.\par
\par
  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the\par
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by\par
this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work\par
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the\par
copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference\par
directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one\par
of these things:\par
\par
    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding\par
    machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever\par
    changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under\par
    Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked\par
    with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that\par
    uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the\par
    user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified\par
    executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood\par
    that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the\par
    Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application\par
    to use the modified definitions.)\par
\par
    b) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at\par
    least three years, to give the same user the materials\par
    specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more\par
    than the cost of performing this distribution.\par
\par
    c) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy\par
    from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above\par
    specified materials from the same place.\par
\par
    d) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these\par
    materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.\par
\par
  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the\par
Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for\par
reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception,\par
the source code distributed need not include anything that is normally\par
distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major\par
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on\par
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies\par
the executable.\par
\par
  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license\par
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally\par
accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot\par
use both them and the Library together in an executable that you\par
distribute.\par
\par
  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the\par
Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library\par
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined\par
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on\par
the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise\par
permitted, and provided that you do these two things:\par
\par
    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work\par
    based on the Library, uncombined with any other library\par
    facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the\par
    Sections above.\par
\par
    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact\par
    that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining\par
    where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.\par
\par
  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute\par
the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any\par
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or\par
distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your\par
rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies,\par
or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses\par
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.\par
\par
  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not\par
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or\par
distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are\par
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by\par
modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the\par
Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and\par
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying\par
the Library or works based on it.\par
\par
  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the\par
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the\par
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library\par
subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further\par
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.\par
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to\par
this License.\par
\par
  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent\par
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),\par
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or\par
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not\par
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot\par
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this\par
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you\par
may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent\par
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by\par
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then\par
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to\par
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.\par
\par
If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any\par
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply,\par
and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.\par
\par
It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any\par
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any\par
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the\par
integrity of the free software distribution system which is\par
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made\par
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed\par
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that\par
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing\par
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot\par
impose that choice.\par
\par
This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to\par
be a consequence of the rest of this License.\par
\par
  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in\par
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the\par
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add\par
an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries,\par
so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus\par
excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if\par
written in the body of this License.\par
\par
  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new\par
versions of the Library General Public License from time to time.\par
Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,\par
but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.\par
\par
Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library\par
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and\par
"any later version", you have the option of following the terms and\par
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by\par
the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a\par
license version number, you may choose any version ever published by\par
the Free Software Foundation.\par
\par
  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free\par
programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these,\par
write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is\par
copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free\par
Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our\par
decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status\par
of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing\par
and reuse of software generally.\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab     NO WARRANTY\par
\par
  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO\par
WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.\par
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR\par
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY\par
KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE\par
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME\par
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.\par
\par
  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN\par
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY\par
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU\par
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR\par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE\par
LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING\par
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A\par
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF\par
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH\par
DAMAGES.\par
\par
\tab\tab      END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
\par
           How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries\par
\par
  If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest\par
possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that\par
everyone can redistribute and change.  You can do so by permitting\par
redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the\par
ordinary General Public License).\par
\par
  To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library.  It is\par
safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively\par
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the\par
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.\par
\par
    <one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.>\par
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>\par
\par
    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or\par
    modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public\par
    License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either\par
    version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.\par
\par
    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,\par
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of\par
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU\par
    Library General Public License for more details.\par
\par
    You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public\par
    License along with this library; if not, write to the Free\par
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA\par
\par
Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.\par
\par
You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your\par
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if\par
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:\par
\par
  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the\par
  library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.\par
\par
  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1990\par
  Ty Coon, President of Vice\par
\par
That's all there is to it!\par
\par
===================== END OF LGPL 2.0 NOTICES AND INFORMATION ==========================\par
==========================================================================\par
Modifiable Third Party Code-  GNU Lesser General Public License 2.1\par
===================================================================\par
\par
This Program includes some or all of the following Modifiable Third Party Code that IBM obtained under the GNU Lesser General Public License. For copies of the source code for this software, send an email to TSMOSREQ@us.ibm.com identifying the IBM Program  and the Modifiable Third Party Code for which you are requesting the source code.\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba GNOME Binding\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba GTK+ Binding\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Glib 2.12.2\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Glib 2.16.4\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba gettext 0.14.6\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba libfuse 2.5.3\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba libgthread 2.16.4\par
\par
                                       GNU Lesser General Public License 2.1\par
                                                Version 2.1, February 1999\par
\par
    Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.\par
\par
    [This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL. It also counts as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence the version number 2.1.]\par
\par
Preamble\par
\par
The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.\par
\par
This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.\par
\par
When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do these things.\par
\par
To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights. These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.\par
\par
For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link other code with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.\par
\par
We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.\par
\par
To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know that what they have is not the original version, so that the original author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be introduced by others.\par
\par
Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any free program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license from a patent holder. Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.\par
\par
Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different from the ordinary General Public License. We use this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.\par
\par
When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined work, a derivative of the original library. The ordinary General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its criteria of freedom. The Lesser General Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with the library.\par
\par
We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License. It also provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over competing non-free programs. These disadvantages are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many libraries. However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain special circumstances.\par
\par
For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto standard. To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to use the library. A more frequent case is that a free library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries. In this case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.\par
\par
In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software. For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating system.\par
\par
Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program using a modified version of the Library.\par
\par
The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in order to run.\par
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION\par
\par
0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".\par
\par
A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.\par
\par
The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)\par
\par
"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the library.\par
\par
Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.\par
\par
1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the Library.\par
\par
You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.\par
\par
2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:\par
\par
    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.\par
\par
    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.\par
\par
    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.\par
\par
    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of its purpose remains meaningful.\par
\par
    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by this function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square root function must still compute square roots.)\par
\par
    These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.\par
\par
    Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the Library.\par
\par
    In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this License. \par
\par
3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make any other change in these notices.\par
\par
Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.\par
\par
This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library into a program that is not a library.\par
\par
4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.\par
\par
If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.\par
\par
5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this License.\par
\par
However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.\par
\par
When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.\par
\par
If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)\par
\par
Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.\par
\par
6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.\par
\par
You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License. Also, you must do one of these things:\par
\par
    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application to use the modified definitions.)\par
\par
    b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library. A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.\par
\par
    c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.\par
\par
    d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials from the same place.\par
\par
    e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.\par
\par
For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from it. However, as a special exception, the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the executable.\par
\par
It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system. Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in an executable that you distribute.\par
\par
7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two things:\par
\par
    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be distributed under the terms of the Sections above.\par
\par
    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.\par
\par
8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.\par
\par
9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the Library or works based on it.\par
\par
10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.\par
\par
11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all. For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.\par
\par
If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.\par
\par
It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that choice.\par
\par
This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a consequence of the rest of this License.\par
\par
12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this License.\par
\par
13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.\par
\par
Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.\par
\par
14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.\par
\par
NO WARRANTY\par
\par
15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.\par
\par
16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\par
\par
\par
END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
\par
\par
How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries\par
If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public License).\par
\par
To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.\par
\par
    <one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.> Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>\par
\par
    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.\par
\par
    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.\par
\par
    You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA \par
\par
Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.\par
\par
You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is a sample; alter the names:\par
\par
    Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.\par
\par
    signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990\par
    Ty Coon, President of Vice\par
\par
That's all there is to it! \par
\par
===================== END OF LGPL 2.1 NOTICES AND INFORMATION ==========================\par
==========================================================================\par
LIBPCAP\par
=======\par
\par
LIBPCAP -The Program includes all or portions of the following software which was obtained under \par
the terms and conditions of the BSD License. \par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
are met:\par
  \par
  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in\par
     the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
     distribution.\par
  3. The names of the authors may not be used to endorse or promote\par
     products derived from this software without specific prior\par
     written permission.\par
  \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED\par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.\par
\par
==================== END OF LIBPCAP NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
==========================================================================\par
Libiconv\par
========\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Libiconv 1.9.2\par
\par
The GNU LIBICONV Library is free software; you can redistribute it \par
and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public\par
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2\par
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.\par
\par
The GNU LIBICONV Library is distributed in the hope that it will be\par
useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of\par
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU\par
Library General Public License for more details.\par
\par
You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public\par
License along with the GNU LIBICONV Library; see the file COPYING.LIB.\par
If not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place -\par
Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.\par
============= END OF Libiconv NOTICES AND INFORMATION ===============\par
==========================================================================\par
\par
Libxml2\par
=======\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Libxml 2.6.27\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Libxml 2.6.30\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Libxml2 2.6.30-1\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Libxml2 2.6.32-L2\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba libxml2 2.4.11\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba libxml2 2.6.26\par
\par
\par
Except where otherwise noted in the source code (trio files, hash.c and list.c) covered by a similar license but with different Copyright notices:\par
\par
Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Daniel Veillard.  All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FIT-NESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DANIEL VEILLARD BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of Daniel Veillard shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization from him.\par
\par
============= END OF MD5 Libxml2 NOTICES AND INFORMATION ===============\par
==========================================================================\par
MIT\par
===\par
The Program includes all or portions of the following software which was obtained under the terms and conditions of the MIT License.\par
\par
dojox/lang/functional.js\par
parts of this module (most notably lamda, constFun, invoke, pluck, and partial) are based on work by Oliver Steele \par
(http://osteele.com/sources/javascript/functional/functional.js)\par
Copyright (c) 2007\par
\par
Javascript language helper functions\par
\par
util/buildscripts/jslib/packer/base2.js, Packer.js, Word.js\par
Copyright Ac 2007 Dean Edwards\par
\par
Dojox/highlight/_base2.js\par
Copyright Ac 2006 Ivan Sagalaev\par
\par
The MIT License\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files \par
(the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, \par
merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is \par
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES \par
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE \par
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN \par
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
========= END OF MIT NOTICES AND INFORMATION ===========\par
==========================================================================\par
OSOA Collaboration's license for SCA\par
====================================\par
\par
OSOA COLLABORATION'S LICENSE FOR SCA: The Program includes certain information \par
Related to the Service Component Architecture JavaDoc, Interface Definition files and XSD files\par
\par
Start of OSOA Collaboration's license for SCA\par
\par
License for the Service Component Architecture JavaDoc, Interface \par
Definition files and XSD files.\par
\par
The Service Component Architecture JavaDoc, Interface Definition files, \par
and XSD files are being provided by the copyright holders under the \par
following license. By using and/or copying this work, you agree that \par
you have read, understood and will comply with the following terms and \par
conditions:\par
\par
Permission to copy, display, make derivative works of, and distribute \par
the Service Component Architecture JavaDoc, Interface Definition Files \par
and XSD files (the "Artifacts") in any medium without fee or royalty is \par
hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies \par
of the Artifacts, or portions thereof, that you make: \par
\par
1. A link or URL to the Artifacts at this location:\par
http://www.osoa.org/display/Main/Service+Component+Architecture+Specifications \par
\par
2. The full text of this copyright notice as shown in the Artifacts.\par
\par
THE ARTIFACTS ARE PROVIDED "AS IS," AND THE AUTHORS MAKE NO \par
REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THE \par
ARTIFACTS AND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THEIR CONTENTS, INCLUDING, BUT NOT \par
LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR \par
PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR TITLE.  \par
\par
THE AUTHORS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, \par
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY \par
USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE ARTIFACTS.\par
\par
The name and trademarks of the Authors may NOT be used in any manner, \par
including advertising or publicity pertaining to the Service Component \par
Architecture Specification or its contents without specific, written \par
prior permission. Title to copyright in the Service Component \par
Architecture Specification and the JavaDoc, Interface Definition Files \par
and XSD Files will at all times remain with the Authors.\par
\par
No other rights are granted by implication, estoppel or otherwise.\par
\par
Revision level 1.1, last updated on 2007/11/19\par
\par
==================== END OF OSOA Collaboration's license for SCA NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
==========================================================================\par
OpenLDAP\par
========\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba OpenLDAP 2.2.29\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba OpenLDAP 2.2.29\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba OpenLDAP 2.3.27\par
\par
\par
The OpenLDAP Public License \par
Version 2.8, 17 August 2003 \par
 \par
Redistribution and use of this software and associated documentation \par
("Software"), with or without modification, are permitted provided \par
that the following conditions are met: \par
 \par
1. Redistributions in source form must retain copyright statements \par
   and notices, \par
 \par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce applicable copyright \par
   statements and notices, this list of conditions, and the following \par
   disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided \par
   with the distribution, and \par
 \par
3. Redistributions must contain a verbatim copy of this document. \par
 \par
The OpenLDAP Foundation may revise this license from time to time. \par
Each revision is distinguished by a version number. You may use \par
this Software under terms of this license revision or under the \par
terms of any subsequent revision of the license. \par
 \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OPENLDAP FOUNDATION AND ITS \par
CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, \par
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY \par
AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT \par
SHALL THE OPENLDAP FOUNDATION, ITS CONTRIBUTORS, OR THE AUTHOR(S) \par
OR OWNER(S) OF THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, \par
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, \par
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; \par
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER \par
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT \par
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN \par
ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE \par
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \par
 \par
The names of the authors and copyright holders must not be used in \par
advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealing \par
in this Software without specific, written prior permission. Title \par
to copyright in this Software shall at all times remain with copyright \par
holders. \par
 \par
OpenLDAP is a registered trademark of the OpenLDAP Foundation. \par
 \par
Copyright 1999-2003 The OpenLDAP Foundation, Redwood City, \par
California, USA. All Rights Reserved. Permission to copy and \par
distribute verbatim copies of this document is granted.\par
\par
============ END OF OpenLDAP NOTICES AND INFORMATION =================\par
==========================================================================\par
\par
Open SSL\par
========\par
\par
The Program contains the following Open SSL Versions.\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Open SSL\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Open SSL 0.9.7d\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Open SSL 0.9.7j\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Open SSL 0.9.8e\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Open SSL 0.9.8i\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba OpenSSL 0.9.8i-1\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba OpenSSL 0.9.8q\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba OpenSSL 0.9.8q-1\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba OpenSSL 0.9.8t\par
\par
\par
IBM is required to provide to you, as recipient of this software, with a copy of the following notices:\par
\par
OpenSSL. The Program includes software developed by The OpenSSL Project (http://www.openssl.org/). IBM obtained the majority of the OpenSSL software under the terms and conditions of the following licenses:\par
\par
OpenSSL License\par
 ---------------\par
Copyright (c) 1998-2008 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \par
\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgment: "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"\par
\par
4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without prior written permission. For written permission, please contact openssl-core@openssl.org.\par
\par
5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL" nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written permission of the OpenSSL Project.\par
\par
6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following acknowledgment: "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com). This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).\par
\par
 */\par
Original SSLeay License\par
 -----------------------\par
Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com) All rights reserved.\par
\par
This package is an SSL implementation written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com). The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.\par
\par
 This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as the following conditions are adhered to. The following conditions apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA, lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code. The SSL documentation included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright terms except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).\par
\par
Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in the code are not to be removed. If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution as the author of the parts of the library used. This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement: "This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)"\par
\par
The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the routines from the library being used are not cryptographic related :-).\par
\par
4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from the apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement: "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
The licence and distribution terms for any publicly available version or derivative of this code cannot be changed. i.e. this code cannot simply be copied and put under another distribution licence [including the GNU Public Licence.]\par
\par
\par
============= COPYRIGHT DES ==============================\par
Copyright (C) 1995-1997 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)\par
\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
This package is an DES implementation written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com). \par
The implementation was written so as to conform with MIT's libdes.\par
\par
This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as the following conditions are adhered to. The following conditions apply to all code found in this distribution.\par
\par
Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in the code are not to be removed. If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution as the author of that the SSL library. This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement: This product includes software developed by Eric Young eay@cryptsoft.com)\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE \par
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
The license and distribution terms for any publicly available version or derivative of this code cannot be changed. i.e. this code cannot simply be copied and put under another distribution license [including the GNU Public License.]\par
\par
The reason behind this being stated in this direct manner is past experience in code simply being copied and the attribution removed from it and then being distributed as part of other packages. This implementation was a non-trivial and unpaid effort.\par
\par
============= COPYRIGHT Blowfish ==============================\par
Copyright (C) 1995-1997 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com) All rights reserved.\par
\par
This package is an Blowfish implementation written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).\par
\par
This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as the following conditions are adhered to. The following conditions apply to all code found in this distribution.\par
\par
Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in the code are not to be removed.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement:\par
\par
This product includes software developed by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
The license and distribution terms for any publicly available version or derivative of this code cannot be changed. i.e. this code cannot simply be copied and put under another distribution license [including the GNU Public License.]\par
\par
The reason behind this being stated in this direct manner is past experience in code simply being copied and the attribution removed from it and then being distributed as part of other packages. This implementation was a non-trivial and unpaid effort.\par
\par
=========== typical c-file header for Copyrights ================\par
/* apps/crl2p7.c */\par
\par
Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com) All rights reserved.\par
\par
This package is an SSL implementation written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com). The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.\par
\par
This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as the following conditions are adhered to. The following conditions apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA, lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code. The SSL documentation included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright terms except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).\par
\par
Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in the code are not to be removed.\par
\par
If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution as the author of the parts of the library used. This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement: "This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)" The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the routines from the library being used are not cryptographic related :-).\par
\par
4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from the apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement: "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
The license and distribution terms for any publicly available version or derivative of this code cannot be changed. i.e. this code cannot simply be copied and put under another distribution license [including the GNU Public License.]\par
\par
This was written by Gordon Chaffee <chaffee@plateau.cs.berkeley.edu> and donated 'to the cause' along with lots and lots of other fixes to the library. \par
\par
============ END OF OpenSSL NOTICES AND INFORMATION =================\par
==========================================================================\par
\par
OpenPegasus  v2.9\par
==============\par
\par
OpenPegasus Licensing\par
\par
The Pegasus project uses the MIT open source license. This license was used to provide a minimum encumbrance on the code and allow maximum usage. This license applies to OpenPegasus code, OpenPegasus website content, and contributions to the OpenPegasus wiki.\par
\par
The license is as follows: \par
Licensed to The Open Group (TOG) under one or more contributor license\par
agreements.  Refer to the OpenPegasusNOTICE.txt file distributed with\par
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.\par
Each contributor licenses this file to you under the OpenPegasus Open\par
Source License; you may not use this file except in compliance with the\par
License.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a\par
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),\par
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation\par
the rights to use, \par
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,\par
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the\par
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included\par
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS\par
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.\par
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY\par
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,\par
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE\par
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
.\par
OpenPegasusNOTICE.txt\par
(as stated in openpegasus release 2.9.0 zip file on openpegasus.org)\par
\par
OpenPegasus is subject to one or more of the following copyrights:\par
\par
\tab Copyright (c) 2000, 2004 BMC Software.\par
\tab Copyright (c) 2003, 2008 EMC Corporation.\par
\tab Copyright (c) 2000-2008 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.\par
\tab Copyright (c) 2000, 2008 IBM Corp.\par
\tab Copyright (c) 2005, 2008 Inova Development Inc.\par
\tab Copyright (c) 2000, 2003 Michael Day.\par
\tab Copyright (c) 2008 Novell.\par
\tab Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 Symantec Corporation.\par
\tab Copyright (c) 2000-2008 The Open Group.\par
\tab Copyright (c) 2000, 2002 Tivoli Systems.\par
\tab Copyright (c) 2004, 2005 VERITAS Software Corporation.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of\par
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in\par
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to\par
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of\par
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,\par
subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all\par
copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
\par
DMTF .mof files \par
\par
// Copyright 1998-2005 Distributed Management Task Force, Inc. (DMTF).\par
// All rights reserved.\par
// DMTF is a not-for-profit association of industry members dedicated\par
// to promoting enterprise and systems management and interoperability.\par
// DMTF specifications and documents may be reproduced for uses\par
// consistent with this purpose by members and non-members,\par
// provided that correct attribution is given.\par
// As DMTF specifications may be revised from time to time,\par
// the particular version and release date should always be noted.\par
//\par
// Implementation of certain elements of this standard or proposed\par
// standard may be subject to third party patent rights, including\par
// provisional patent rights (herein "patent rights"). DMTF makes\par
// no representations to users of the standard as to the existence\par
// of such rights, and is not responsible to recognize, disclose, or\par
// identify any or all such third party patent right, owners or\par
// claimants, nor for any incomplete or inaccurate identification or\par
// disclosure of such rights, owners or claimants. DMTF shall have no\par
// liability to any party, in any manner or circumstance, under any\par
// legal theory whatsoever, for failure to recognize, disclose, or\par
// identify any such third party patent rights, or for such party's\par
// reliance on the standard or incorporation thereof in its product,\par
// protocols or testing procedures. DMTF shall have no liability to\par
// any party implementing such standard, whether such implementation\par
// is foreseeable or not, nor to any patent owner or claimant, and shall\par
// have no liability or responsibility for costs or losses incurred if\par
// a standard is withdrawn or modified after publication, and shall be\par
// indemnified and held harmless by any party implementing the\par
// standard from any and all claims of infringement by a patent owner\par
// for such implementations.\par
\par
\par
=================================================================\par
Pegasus Unsupported Source Tree\par
=================================\par
\par
This area of the Pegasus source code tree contains files that are not\par
part of the default build environment or test suite environment of\par
Pegasus.\par
\par
Criteria for Submission to Unsupported Repository\par
=================================================\par
\par
1) Pegasus License\par
\par
All submissions to this area must be in the form of source code (no\par
binaries) and must be licensed under the Pegasus source license, which\par
is as follows:\par
\par
//%/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\par
//\par
// Copyright (c) 2003 (author or author's employer)\par
//\par
// Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy\par
// of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to\par
// deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the\par
// rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or\par
// sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is\par
// furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
// \par
// THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICE AND THIS PERMISSION NOTICE SHALL BE INCLUDED IN\par
// ALL COPIES OR SUBSTANTIAL PORTIONS OF THE SOFTWARE. THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED\par
// "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT\par
// LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
// PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT\par
// HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN\par
// ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION\par
// WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
//\par
//==============================================================================\par
//\par
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\par
\par
All copyright holders of a source file must submit it under this\par
license, and no other licenses may be asserted. \par
\par
2) README\par
\par
All submissions must include a README text file that documents the\par
purpose of the module and provides contact information for the\par
module's author.\par
\par
============ END OF OPenPegasus v2.9 NOTICES AND INFORMATION =================\par
==========================================================================\par
\par
RSA CODE\par
========\par
\par
The Program includes the following RSA software:\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba MD5 RFC1321\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba RSA MD5\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba RSA MD5 (April 1992 Version - original IETF RFC 1321 sample implementation)\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from RSA Data Security:  \par
\par
Copyright (C) 1991-2, RSA Data Security, Inc. Created 1991. All rights reserved.\par
License to copy and use this software is granted provided that it is identified as the "RSA Data Security, Inc. MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm" in all material mentioning or referencing this software or this function.\par
License is also granted to make and use derivative works provided that such works are identified as "derived from the RSA Data Security, Inc. MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm" in all material mentioning or referencing the derived work.\par
RSA Data Security, Inc. makes no representations concerning either the merchantability of this software or the suitability of this software for any particular purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty of any kind.\par
These notices must be retained in any copies of any part of this documentation and/or software.\par
\par
================= END OF RSA NOTICES AND INFORMATION ====================\par
\par
==========================================================================\par
Retroweaver\par
===========\par
\par
Retroweaver.  The Program includes all or portions of the following \par
software which was obtained under the terms and conditions of the \par
BSD License.\par
\par
Retroweaver \par
\par
Copyright (c) February 2004, Toby Reyelts\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, \par
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \par
\par
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. \par
\par
Neither the name of Toby Reyelts nor the names of his contributors \par
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software \par
without specific prior written permission. \par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
==================== END OF Retroweaver NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
==========================================================================\par
SDO3\par
====\par
\par
SDO3.  The Program includes all or portions of the following \par
software which was obtained under the terms and conditions of the \par
OASIS License.\par
\par
SDO3\par
Copyright Ac OASISAr 2005, 2009. All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
All capitalized terms in the following text have the meanings assigned to them in the OASIS Intellectual \par
Property Rights Policy (the "OASIS IPR Policy"). The full Policy may be found at the OASIS website.\par
This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to others, and derivative works that \par
comment on or otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published, \par
and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above copyright \par
notice and this section are included on all such copies and derivative works. However, this document \par
itself may not be modified in any way, including by removing the copyright notice or references to OASIS, \par
except as needed for the purpose of developing any document or deliverable produced by an OASIS \par
Technical Committee (in which case the rules applicable to copyrights, as set forth in the OASIS IPR \par
Policy, must be followed) or as required to translate it into languages other than English.\par
The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be revoked by OASIS or its successors \par
or assigns.\par
\par
This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and OASIS \par
DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY \par
WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY OWNERSHIP \par
RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR \par
PURPOSE.\par
\par
OASIS requests that any OASIS Party or any other party that believes it has patent claims that would \par
necessarily be infringed by implementations of this OASIS Committee Specification or OASIS Standard, \par
to notify OASIS TC Administrator and provide an indication of its willingness to grant patent licenses to \par
such patent claims in a manner consistent with the IPR Mode of the OASIS Technical Committee that \par
produced this specification.\par
\par
OASIS invites any party to contact the OASIS TC Administrator if it is aware of a claim of ownership of \par
any patent claims that would necessarily be infringed by implementations of this specification by a patent \par
holder that is not willing to provide a license to such patent claims in a manner consistent with the IPR \par
Mode of the OASIS Technical Committee that produced this specification. OASIS may include such \par
claims on its website, but disclaims any obligation to do so.\par
\par
OASIS takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any intellectual property or other rights that \par
might be claimed to pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in this document or \par
the extent to which any license under such rights might or might not be available; neither does it represent \par
that it has made any effort to identify any such rights. Information on OASIS' procedures with respect to \par
rights in any document or deliverable produced by an OASIS Technical Committee can be found on the \par
OASIS website. Copies of claims of rights made available for publication and any assurances of licenses \par
to be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use \par
of such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this OASIS Committee Specification or OASIS \par
Standard, can be obtained from the OASIS TC Administrator. OASIS makes no representation that any \par
information or list of intellectual property rights will at any time be complete, or that any claims in such list \par
are, in fact, Essential Claims.\par
\par
The names "OASIS",  are trademarks of OASIS, the owner and developer of this specification, and should \par
be used only to refer to the organization and its official outputs. OASIS welcomes reference to, and \par
implementation and use of, specifications, while reserving the right to enforce its marks against misleading \par
uses. Please see http://www.oasis-open.org/who/trademark.php for above guidance.\par
\par
==================== END OF SDO3 NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
==========================================================================\par
SERP\par
====\par
\par
SERP.  The Program includes SERP which IBM obtained under \par
the terms and conditions of the following license. \par
\par
Copyright (c) 2002-2006, A. Abram White\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without \par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this \par
  list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, \par
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation \par
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
* Neither the name of 'serp' nor the names of its contributors may\par
  be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without \par
  specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS \par
AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED \par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR \par
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT \par
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS \par
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, \par
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES \par
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF \par
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR \par
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED \par
AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, \par
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)\par
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,\par
 EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
==================== END OF SERP NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
==========================================================================\par
SLF4J\par
=====\par
\par
The Program includes SLF4J which IBM obtained under \par
the terms and conditions of the following license. \par
\par
Copyright (c) 2004-2007 QOS.ch\par
 * All rights reserved.\par
 * \par
 * Permission is hereby granted, free  of charge, to any person obtaining\par
 * a  copy  of this  software  and  associated  documentation files  (the\par
 * "Software"), to  deal in  the Software without  restriction, including\par
 * without limitation  the rights to  use, copy, modify,  merge, publish,\par
 * distribute,  sublicense, and/or sell  copies of  the Software,  and to\par
 * permit persons to whom the Software  is furnished to do so, subject to\par
 * the following conditions:\par
 * \par
 * The  above  copyright  notice  and  this permission  notice  shall  be\par
 * included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
 * \par
 * THE  SOFTWARE IS  PROVIDED  "AS  IS", WITHOUT  WARRANTY  \par
 *OF ANY  KIND,  EXPRESS OR  IMPLIED, INCLUDING  BUT NOT \par
 *LIMITED  TO THE  WARRANTIES OF  MERCHANTABILITY,    \par
 *FITNESS    FOR    A   PARTICULAR    PURPOSE    AND\par
  *NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR \par
 *COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE  LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, \par
 *DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION\par
 * OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,  ARISING FROM, \par
 *OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE \par
 *USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
==================== END OF SLF4J NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
==========================================================================\par
Scintilla 2.11 \par
============\par
\par
The following versions are used in this program:\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Scintilla 2.11\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from Scintilla:  \par
\par
Copyright 1998-2003 by Neil Hodgson <neilh@scintilla.org>\par
\par
All Rights Reserved \par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.\par
\par
NEIL HODGSON DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL NEIL HODGSON BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.\par
\par
\par
================== END OF Scintilla 2.11 NOTICES AND INFORMATION ==================\par
==========================================================================\par
Shrinksafe\par
==========\par
The following will be added to the notices file for Shrinksafe (and called out in the DOU for Dojo):\par
\par
The Mozilla Public License Version 1.1 covers the optional Shrinksafe build tool, and Mozilla Rhino 1.7r2 which is redistributed \par
with that tool.  Shrinksafe contains modified files from Mozilla Rhino covered under Mozilla Public License Version 1.1.  The \par
source code for these modifications has been made available at the public Dojo svn repository at http://www.dojotoolkit.org.\par
\par
The Shrinksafe tool requires use of Mozilla Rhino 1.6r7 or higher in order to run.  We are relying on the separate DD Checklist \par
already approved for the Rhino 1.7R2 jar. The version of Rhino that will be redistributed with the Shrinksafe package by default \par
is the approved version of Mozilla Rhino 1.7r2.\par
======== END OF Shrinksafe NOTICES AND INFORMATION ==========\par
==========================================================================\par
TinyXML 2.5.3\par
=============\par
\par
- TinyXML 2.5.3\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from zlib:  \par
\par
Original code(2.0 and earlier) copyright Ac 2000-2006 Lee Thomason (www.grinninglizard.com)\par
This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty. In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of this software.\par
Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to the following restrictions:\par
1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is not required.\par
2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original software.\par
3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.\par
\par
==================== END OF TinyXML 2.5.3 NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
\par
==========================================================================\par
W3C\par
===\par
\par
The Program includes\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba W3C\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba W3C DOM Level 3 Core Version 1.0\par
\par
which was obtained by IBM under the following terms and conditions: \par
\par
W3CAr SOFTWARE NOTICE AND LICENSE\par
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/copyright-software-20021231\par
\par
This work (and included software, documentation such as READMEs, or other related items) is being provided by the copyright holders under the following license. By obtaining, using and/or copying this work, you (the licensee) agree that you have read, understood, and will comply with the following terms and conditions.\par
\par
Permission to copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation, with or without modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies of the software and documentation or portions thereof, including modifications:\par
\par
1. The full text of this NOTICE in a location viewable to users of the redistributed or derivative work. \par
2. Any pre-existing intellectual property disclaimers, notices, or terms and conditions. If none exist, the W3C Software Short Notice should be included (hypertext is preferred, text is permitted) within the body of any redistributed or derivative code. \par
3. Notice of any changes or modifications to the files, including the date changes were made. (We recommend you provide URIs to the location from which the code is derived.) \par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT \par
THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION.\par
\par
The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in advertising or \par
publicity pertaining to the software without specific, written prior permission. \par
Title to copyright in this software and any associated documentation will at all times remain with copyright holders.\par
\par
END OF W3C TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
\par
\par
============ END OF W3C NOTICES AND INFORMATION =================\par
==========================================================================\par
WINPCAP\par
=======\par
\par
The Program includes all or portions of this software which was obtained under \par
following terms and conditions:  \par
\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1999 - 2005 NetGroup, Politecnico di Torino (Italy).\par
Copyright (c) 2005 - 2009 CACE Technologies, Davis (California).\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. \par
3. Neither the name of the Politecnico di Torino, CACE Technologies nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. \par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
This product includes software developed by the University of California, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and its contributors. \par
This product includes software developed by the Kungliga Tekniska HA\'14gskolan and its contributors.\par
This product includes software developed by Yen Yen Lim and North Dakota State University.\par
 \par
\par
Portions Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement: "This product includes software developed by the University of California, Berkeley and its contributors."\par
4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
Portions Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation, advertising materials, and other materials related to such distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed by the University of California, Berkeley. The name of the University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.\par
\par
Portions Copyright (c) 1995, 1996, 1997 Kungliga Tekniska HA\'14gskolan (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden). All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement: "This product includes software developed by the Kungliga Tekniska HA\'14gskolan and its contributors."\par
4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
Portions Copyright (c) 1997 Yen Yen Lim and North Dakota State University. All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement: "This product includes software developed by Yen Yen Lim and North Dakota State University"\par
4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
Portions Copyright (c) 1993 by Digital Equipment Corporation.\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the name of Digital Equipment Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the document or software without specific, written prior permission.\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP. DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. \par
\par
Portions Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, and 1999 WIDE Project. All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
3. Neither the name of the project nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE PROJECT AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE PROJECT OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS\par
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY\par
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \par
\par
Portions Copyright (c) 1996 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that: (1) source code distributions retain the above copyright notice and this paragraph in its entirety, (2) distributions including binary code include the above copyright notice and this paragraph in its entirety in the documentation or other materials provided with the distribution. The name of Juniper Networks may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. \par
\par
Portions Copyright (c) 2001 Daniel Hartmeier All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \par
- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. \par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTOR "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \par
\par
Portions Copyright 1989 by Carnegie Mellon.\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this program for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that this copyright and permission notice appear on all copies and supporting documentation, the name of Carnegie Mellon not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the program without specific prior permission, and notice be given in supporting documentation that copying and distribution is by permission of Carnegie Mellon and Stanford University. Carnegie Mellon makes no representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.\par
\par
==================== END OF WINPCAP NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
==========================================================================\par
ZLIB. \par
=====\par
\par
The following versions are used in this program:\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba Zlib 1.2.5\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba zlib 1.2.2\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba zlib 1.2.3\par
\par
\par
The Program includes the zlib.h - interface of the 'zlib' general purposes\par
compression library. IBM obtained the software under the terms and\par
conditions of the following license agreement:\par
\par
http://www.gzip.org/zlib/zlib_license.html\par
\par
License\par
\par
Copyright (C) 1995-2002 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler\par
\par
This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty. In\par
no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of\par
this software.\par
\par
Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including\par
commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to\par
the following restrictions:\par
\par
1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim\par
that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an\par
acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is not\par
required.\par
2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be\par
misrepresented as being the original software.\par
3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.\par
\par
Jean-loup Gailly jloup@gzip.org\par
Mark Adler madler@alumni.caltech.edu\par
\par
================== END OF ZLIB NOTICES AND INFORMATION ==================\par
==========================================================================\par
base64-c-none-vmwmisc\par
=====================\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1996, 1998 by Internet Software Consortium.\par
 \par
 Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any\par
 purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above\par
 copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.\par
 \par
 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND INTERNET SOFTWARE CONSORTIUM DISCLAIMS\par
 ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES\par
 OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL INTERNET SOFTWARE\par
 CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
 DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR\par
 PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS\par
 ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS\par
 SOFTWARE.\par
 \par
 Portions Copyright (c) 1995 by International Business Machines, Inc.\par
 \par
 International Business Machines, Inc. (hereinafter called IBM) grants\par
 permission under its copyrights to use, copy, modify, and distribute this\par
 Software with or without fee, provided that the above copyright notice and\par
 all paragraphs of this notice appear in all copies, and that the name of IBM\par
 not be used in connection with the marketing of any product incorporating\par
 the Software or modifications thereof, without specific, written prior\par
 permission.\par
 \par
 To the extent it has a right to do so, IBM grants an immunity from suit\par
 under its patents, if any, for the use, sale or manufacture of products to\par
 the extent that such products are used for performing Domain Name System\par
 dynamic updates in TCP/IP networks by means of the Software. No immunity is\par
 granted for any product per se or for any other function of any product.\par
 \par
 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", AND IBM DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES,\par
 INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A\par
 PARTICULAR PURPOSE. IN NO EVENT SHALL IBM BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,\par
 DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER ARISING\par
 OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN\par
 IF IBM IS APPRISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\par
\par
==================== END OF base64-c-none-vmwmisc NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
\par
==========================================================================\par
d3des\par
===\par
 D3DES (V5.09) -\par
\par
   A portable, public domain, version of the Data Encryption Standard.\par
\par
   Written with Symantec's THINK (Lightspeed) C by Richard Outerbridge.\par
   Thanks to: Dan Hoey for his excellent Initial and Inverse permutation\par
   code;  Jim Gillogly & Phil Karn for the DES key schedule code; Dennis\par
   Ferguson, Eric Young and Dana How for comparing notes; and Ray Lau,\par
   for humouring me on.\par
\par
   Copyright (c) 1988,1989,1990,1991,1992 by Richard Outerbridge.\par
   (GEnie : OUTER; CIS : [71755,204]) Graven Imagery, 1992.\par
============ END OF d3des NOTICES AND INFORMATION =================\par
==========================================================================\par
gSOAP 2.8\par
=========\par
\par
"Part of the software embedded in this product is gSOAP software. \par
Portions created by gSOAP are Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Robert A. van Engelen, Genivia inc. All Rights Reserved. \par
THE SOFTWARE IN THIS PRODUCT WAS IN PART PROVIDED BY GENIVIA INC AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE." \par
\par
============ END OF gSOAP 2.8 NOTICES AND INFORMATION =================\par
 \par
==========================================================================\par
libmsg\par
======\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba libmsg 2.3\par
\par
\par
   Copyright 1990, by Alfalfa Software Incorporated, Cambridge, Massachusetts.\par
\par
   All Rights Reserved\par
\par
   Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its\par
   documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,\par
   provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that\par
   both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in\par
   supporting documentation, and that Alfalfa's name not be used in\par
   advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software\par
   without specific, written prior permission.\par
\par
   ALPHALPHA DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING\par
   ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL\par
   ALPHALPHA BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR\par
   ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,\par
   WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION,\par
   ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS\par
   SOFTWARE.\par
\par
============= END OF libmsg NOTICES AND INFORMATION ===============\par
==========================================================================\par
Unicode\par
=======\par
\par
The Program includes data files which were obtained under the terms and conditions of the following license.\par
 \par
UNICODE, INC. LICENSE AGREEMENT - DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE\par
\par
Unicode Data Files include all data files under the directories http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, \par
and http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/ . \par
Unicode Software includes any source code published in the Unicode Standard or under the directories \par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/.\par
\par
NOTICE TO USER: Carefully read the following legal agreement. BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING UNICODE \par
INC.'S DATA FILES ("DATA FILES"), AND/OR SOFTWARE ("SOFTWARE"), YOU UNEQUIVOCALLY ACCEPT, AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY, ALL OF THE \par
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE, DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, DISTRIBUTE OR USE THE DATA FILES OR \par
SOFTWARE.\par
\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
Copyright Ac 1991-2007 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved. Distributed under the Terms of Use in \par
http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of the Unicode data files and any associated  \par
documentation (the "Data Files") or Unicode software and any associated documentation (the "Software") to deal in the Data Files \par
or Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or \par
sell copies of the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the Data Files or Software are furnished to do so, provided  \par
that (a) the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear with all copies of the Data Files or Software, (b) both \par
the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in associated documentation, and (c) there is clear notice in \par
each modified Data File or in the Software as well as in the documentation associated with the Data File(s) or Software that the \par
data or software has been modified.\par
\par
THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO \par
THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL \par
THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL \par
DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR \par
OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the \par
sale, use or other dealings in these Data Files or Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder.\par
\par
==================== END OF Unicode NOTICES AND INFORMATION =======================\par
==========================================================================\par
vim25jar\par
===================\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2008 VMware, Inc. All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
============= END OF vim25jar NOTICES AND INFORMATION ===============\par
\par
END OF NOTICES FOR: IBM Tivoli Storage FlashCopy(R) Manager 3.2\par
\par
=========================================================\par
\par
IBM Enterprise Content Management Text Search 2.1\par
\par
The Program includes the following components:\par
\par
\par
Apache Software License 2.0 \par
\par
The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Apache License Version 2.0\par
Apache ANT V1.8.1\par
Apache PDFBox V1.2.1\par
Lucene 3.6\par
UIMA 2.3\par
TrueZip 6.8.1\par
Google-gson 1.7.1\par
CXF 2.3.3\par
Log4j V1.2.16 \par
Certain constants in Log4J were extracted from a syslog.h file copyrighted by the Regents of the University of California and subject to the BSD license.\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1982, 1986, 1988, 1993\par
The Regents of the University of California.  \par
 \par
All rights reserved. Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement: This product includes software developed by the University of California, Berkeley and its contributors.\par
4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' ANDANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THEIMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSEARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
\par
Apache License\par
Version 2.0, January 2004\par
http://www.apache.org/licenses/ \par
\par
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION \par
1. Definitions.\par
"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document. \par
"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright owner that is granting the License. \par
"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity. \par
"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising permissions granted by this License. \par
"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and configuration files. \par
"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types. \par
"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix below). \par
"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof. \par
"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution." \par
"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently incorporated within the Work. \par
2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form. \par
3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed. \par
4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions: \par
You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy of this License; and \par
You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that You changed the files; and \par
You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and \par
If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying the License. \par
You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this License. \par
5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions. \par
6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file. \par
7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License. \par
8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such damages. \par
9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability. \par
END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
\par
\par
END OF APACHE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
ICU CODE  The Program includes ICU software.\par
International Component for Unicode (ICU4C) V4.0\par
International Component for Unicode (ICU4J) V4.4.2\par
\par
IBM is required to provide to you the following notices and important information in connection with these Excluded Components.\par
\par
ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1995-2006 International Business Machines Corporation and others \par
All rights reserved. \par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. \par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTUOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. \par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder. \par
 \par
UNICODE, INC. LICENSE AGREEMENT - DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE\par
\par
    Unicode Data Files include all data files under the directories\par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and\par
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/ . Unicode Software includes any source code\par
published in the Unicode Standard or under the directories\par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and\par
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/.\par
\par
    NOTICE TO USER: Carefully read the following legal agreement. BY\par
DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING UNICODE INC.'S DATA FILES\par
("DATA FILES"), AND/OR SOFTWARE ("SOFTWARE"), YOU UNEQUIVOCALLY ACCEPT, AND\par
AGREE TO BE BOUND BY, ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU\par
DO NOT AGREE, DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, DISTRIBUTE OR USE THE DATA FILES\par
OR SOFTWARE.    \par
\par
    COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
    Copyright Ac 1991-2006 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved. Distributed under\par
the Terms of Use in http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.\par
\par
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy\par
of the Unicode data files and any associated documentation (the "Data Files") or\par
Unicode software and any associated documentation (the "Software") to deal in\par
the Data Files or Software without restriction, including without limitation the\par
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of\par
the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the Data Files or\par
Software are furnished to do so, provided that (a) the above copyright notice(s)\par
and this permission notice appear with all copies of the Data Files or Software,\par
(b) both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in\par
associated documentation, and (c) there is clear notice in each modified Data\par
File or in the Software as well as in the documentation associated with the Data\par
File(s) or Software that the data or software has been modified.\par
\par
    THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY\par
KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD\par
PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS\par
NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,\par
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTUOUS ACTION, ARISING\par
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA FILES OR\par
SOFTWARE.\par
\par
    Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not\par
be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings\par
in these Data Files or Software without prior written authorization of the\par
copyright holder.\par
\par
END OF ICU CODE NOTICE AND INFORMATION \par
====================================================================\par
\par
IBM ECLIPSE SDK CODE 4.2.2. \par
\par
This Program includes IBM Eclipse SDK V4.2.2.  The following are notices and other important information with respect to this third party code.\par
\par
Eclipse Public license\par
\par
The following subset of third party code was obtained from the Eclipse Foundation (herein collectively referred to as "Eclipse Code"). Notices and important information, including instructions for obtaining source code, for the Eclipse Code may be found in associated "about.html" files ("About Files") that accompany the Eclipse Code. These About Files are provided for informational purposes only, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary therein, your use of such Eclipse Code shall be governed by the terms of the IBM end user license agreement.\par
\par
Eclipse CDT 8.1 \par
Eclipse Communication Framework 3.5.4  \par
Eclipse Equinox (OSGi Services) 3.8 \par
Eclipse Target Management (TM) 3.4 \par
Ant 1.8.3 \par
ASM 3.3.1 \par
Atinject 1.0 \par
Batik 1.6 \par
BoundedBufferWithStateTracking \par
Cairo Binding \par
Cairo Library 1.0.2 \par
Commons codec 1.3.0 \par
Commons Collections (ReferenceMap.java is a derivative of one class) 2.1.1 \par
Commons HttpClient 3.1.0 \par
Commons Logging 1.0.4 \par
Commons Net 2.2 \par
DOM 3 \par
DOM SMIL Animation 1.0 \par
Java Binding (subset) \par
Felix Gogo 0.8 \par
Felix SCR API 1.6 \par
Geronimo annotation_1.0_spec 1.1.1 \par
GNOME Binding GTK+ Binding \par
Hamcrest Core 1.1 \par
ICU4J 4.4.2 \par
Independent JPEG Group's LIBJPEG Release 6b \par
iSpell Dictionaries 3.1.20 \par
Java Expression Language API 2.2.0 \par
Java Servlet API 3.1-b33 \par
Jetty 8.1.3 \par
JSch 0.1.46 \par
Junit 4.10 \par
LPG Runtime 1.1 \par
Lucene 2.9.1 \par
Mozilla Binding \par
OSGi Materials 4.3.0 \par
pixman 0.1.6 \par
Putty 0.58 \par
SAT4J 2.3.0 \par
SAX 2.0.2 \par
Simple API for CSS \par
XHTML DTDs 1.1 \par
XML-APIs 1.3.4 \par
XML4J 4.3 \par
XULRunner 1.9 \par
\par
Eclipse Public License - v 1.0\par
\par
THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS ECLIPSE PUBLIC LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.\par
\par
1. DEFINITIONS\par
\par
"Contribution" means:\par
\par
a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial code and documentation distributed under this Agreement, and\par
\par
b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:\par
\par
i) changes to the Program, and\par
\par
ii) additions to the Program;\par
\par
where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and are distributed by that particular Contributor. A Contribution 'originates' from a Contributor if it was added to the Program by such Contributor itself or anyone acting on such Contributor's behalf. Contributions do not include additions to the Program which: (i) are separate modules of software distributed in conjunction with the Program under their own license agreement, and (ii) are not derivative works of the Program.\par
\par
"Contributor" means any person or entity that distributes the Program.\par
\par
"Licensed Patents" mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor which are necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution alone or when combined with the Program.\par
\par
"Program" means the Contributions distributed in accordance with this Agreement.\par
\par
"Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this Agreement, including all Contributors.\par
\par
2. GRANT OF RIGHTS\par
\par
a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform, distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, and such derivative works, in source code and object code form.\par
\par
b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent license under Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell, import and otherwise transfer the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, in source code and object code form. This patent license shall apply to the combination of the Contribution and the Program if, at the time the Contribution is added by the Contributor, such addition of the Contribution causes such combination to be covered by the Licensed Patents. The patent license shall not apply to any other combinations which include the Contribution. No hardware per se is licensed hereunder.\par
\par
c) Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the licenses to its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are provided by any Contributor that the Program does not infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of any other entity. Each Contributor disclaims any liability to Recipient for claims brought by any other entity based on infringement of intellectual property rights or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the rights and licenses granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility to secure any other intellectual property rights needed, if any. For example, if a third party patent license is required to allow Recipient to distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility to acquire that license before distributing the Program.\par
\par
d) Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient copyright rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright license set forth in this Agreement.\par
\par
3. REQUIREMENTS\par
\par
A Contributor may choose to distribute the Program in object code form under its own license agreement, provided that:\par
\par
a) it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and\par
\par
b) its license agreement:\par
\par
i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties and conditions, express and implied, including warranties or conditions of title and non-infringement, and implied warranties or conditions of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose;\par
\par
ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability for damages, including direct, indirect, special, incidental and consequential damages, such as lost profits;\par
\par
iii) states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are offered by that Contributor alone and not by any other party; and\par
\par
iv) states that source code for the Program is available from such Contributor, and informs licensees how to obtain it in a reasonable manner on or through a medium customarily used for software exchange.\par
\par
When the Program is made available in source code form:\par
\par
a) it must be made available under this Agreement; and\par
\par
b) a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the Program.\par
\par
Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright notices contained within the Program.\par
\par
Each Contributor must identify itself as the originator of its Contribution, if any, in a manner that reasonably allows subsequent Recipients to identify the originator of the Contribution.\par
\par
4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION\par
\par
Commercial distributors of software may accept certain responsibilities with respect to end users, business partners and the like. While this license is intended to facilitate the commercial use of the Program, the Contributor who includes the Program in a commercial product offering should do so in a manner which does not create potential liability for other Contributors. Therefore, if a Contributor includes the Program in a commercial product offering, such Contributor ("Commercial Contributor") hereby agrees to defend and indemnify every other Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") against any losses, damages and costs (collectively "Losses") arising from claims, lawsuits and other legal actions brought by a third party against the Indemnified Contributor to the extent caused by the acts or omissions of such Commercial Contributor in connection with its distribution of the Program in a commercial product offering. The obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses relating to any actual or alleged intellectual property infringement. In order to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly notify the Commercial Contributor in writing of such claim, and b) allow the Commercial Contributor to control, and cooperate with the Commercial Contributor in, the defense and any related settlement negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may participate in any such claim at its own expense.\par
\par
For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial product offering, Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial Contributor. If that Commercial Contributor then makes performance claims, or offers warranties related to Product X, those performance claims and warranties are such Commercial Contributor's responsibility alone. Under this section, the Commercial Contributor would have to defend claims against the other Contributors related to those performance claims and warranties, and if a court requires any other Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the Commercial Contributor must pay those damages.\par
\par
5. NO WARRANTY\par
\par
EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each Recipient is solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using and distributing the Program and assumes all risks associated with its exercise of rights under this Agreement , including but not limited to the risks and costs of program errors, compliance with applicable laws, damage to or loss of data, programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption of operations.\par
\par
6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY\par
\par
EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\par
\par
7. GENERAL\par
\par
If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the terms of this Agreement, and without further action by the parties hereto, such provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable.\par
\par
If Recipient institutes patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program itself (excluding combinations of the Program with other software or hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then such Recipient's rights granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.\par
\par
All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it fails to comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this Agreement and does not cure such failure in a reasonable period of time after becoming aware of such noncompliance. If all Recipient's rights under this Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to cease use and distribution of the Program as soon as reasonably practicable. However, Recipient's obligations under this Agreement and any licenses granted by Recipient relating to the Program shall continue and survive.\par
\par
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement, but in order to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and may only be modified in the following manner. The Agreement Steward reserves the right to publish new versions (including revisions) of this Agreement from time to time. No one other than the Agreement Steward has the right to modify this Agreement. The Eclipse Foundation is the initial Agreement Steward. The Eclipse Foundation may assign the responsibility to serve as the Agreement Steward to a suitable separate entity. Each new version of the Agreement will be given a distinguishing version number. The Program (including Contributions) may always be distributed subject to the version of the Agreement under which it was received. In addition, after a new version of the Agreement is published, Contributor may elect to distribute the Program (including its Contributions) under the new version. Except as expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, Recipient receives no rights or licenses to the intellectual property of any Contributor under this Agreement, whether expressly, by implication, estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program not expressly granted under this Agreement are reserved.\par
\par
This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and the intellectual property laws of the United States of America. No party to this Agreement will bring a legal action under this Agreement more than one year after the cause of action arose. Each party waives its rights to a jury trial in any resulting litigation.\par
\par
END OF EPL FOR THE IBM ECLIPSE SDK CODE\par
*******************************************************************************************************************\par
\par
\par
\par
IBM ECLIPSE SDK CODE include DATA TOOLS PROJECT OF IBM ECLIPSE SDK \par
The following are notices and other important information with respect to this third party code.\par
\par
IBM has made certain modifications to the Eclipse Code, which \par
modifications are referred to as the "Data Tools Project of IBM \par
Eclipse SDK" and "Data-Tools Component of Constellation" that were \par
not contributed back to the Eclipse Foundation because they are \par
unique to this Program. The source code for these additional IBM \par
modifications can be obtained by sending an email to \par
dsdtp@us.ibm.com.\par
\par
END OF DATA TOOLS PROJECT FOR THE IBM ECLIPSE SDK CODE\par
*******************************************************************************************************************\par
\par
Modifiable Third Party Code\par
\par
IBM ECLIPSE SDK CODE includes some or all of the following Modifiable Third Party Code that IBM obtained under the GNU Lesser General Public License. The following are notices and other important information with respect to this third party code.       \par
\par
For copies of the source code for this software, send an email to ies@ca.ibm.com identifying the IBM Program and the Modifiable Third Party Code for which you are requesting the source code.\par
\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba\tab GNOME Binding\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba\tab GTK+ Binding\par
\'c6\rquote ?\'e2\'80\'ba\tab GTK+ Binding for Mozilla\par
\par
GNU Lesser General Public License\par
Version 2.1, February 1999\par
Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.\par
[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL. It also counts as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence the version number 2.1.]\par
Preamble\par
The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.\par
This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.\par
When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do these things.\par
To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights. These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.\par
For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link other code with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.\par
We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.\par
To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know that what they have is not the original version, so that the original author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be introduced by others.\par
Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any free program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license from a patent holder. Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.\par
Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different from the ordinary General Public License. We use this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.\par
When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined work, a derivative of the original library. The ordinary General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its criteria of freedom. The Lesser General Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with the library.\par
We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License. It also provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over competing non-free programs. These disadvantages are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many libraries. However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain special circumstances.\par
For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto standard. To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to use the library. A more frequent case is that a free library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries. In this case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.\par
In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software. For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating system.\par
Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program using a modified version of the Library.\par
The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in order to run.\par
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION\par
0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".\par
A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.\par
The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)\par
"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the library.\par
Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.\par
1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the Library.\par
You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.\par
2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:\par
a) The modified work must itself be a software library.\par
b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.\par
c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.\par
d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of its purpose remains meaningful.\par
(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by this function must be optional: if the a pplication does not supply it, the square root function must still compute square roots.)\par
These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.\par
Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the Library.\par
In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this License.\par
3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make any other change in these notices.\par
Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.\par
This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library into a program that is not a library.\par
4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.\par
If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.\par
5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this License.\par
However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.\par
When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.\par
If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)\par
Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.\par
6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.\par
You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License. Also, you must do one of these things:\par
a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application to use the modified definitions.)\par
b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library. A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.\par
c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.\par
d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials from the same place.\par
e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.\par
For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from it. However, as a special exception, the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the executable.\par
It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system. Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in an executable that you distribute.\par
7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two things:\par
a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be distributed under the terms of the Sections above.\par
b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.\par
8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.\par
9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the Library or works based on it.\par
10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.\par
11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all. For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.\par
If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.\par
It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that choice.\par
This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a consequence of the rest of this License.\par
12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this License.\par
13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.\par
Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.\par
14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.\par
NO WARRANTY\par
15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.\par
16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\par
END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries\par
If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public License).\par
To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found. \par
<one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.> Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>\par
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.\par
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.\par
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA \par
Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.\par
You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is a sample; alter the names:\par
Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.\par
signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990\par
Ty Coon, President of Vice\par
END OF Modifiable Third Party Code FOR THE IBM ECLIPSE SDK CODE\par
*******************************************************************************************************************\par
\par
END OF IBM ECLIPSE SDK V4.2.2 NOTICE AND LICENSE INFORMATION\par
\par
====================================================================\par
\par
InstallAnywhere 2012\par
\par
InstallAnywhere 2012 includes the following:\par
\par
ANT 1.6.2; \par
PNGImage Producer\par
BrowserLauncher V1.4b1;  \par
HSQLDB V1.7.1; \par
Commons Codec 1.3; \par
Apache Log4j 1.0.3\par
JSch 0.1.45\par
ICU4J V3.6.1; \par
JTOPEN V5.1.1\par
\par
\par
Apache License 2.0\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Apache License Version 2.0:\par
\par
A\'c3\'ba\tab Commons Codec 1.3\par
A\'c3\'ba\tab ANT 1.6.2\par
A\'c3\'ba\tab Apache Log4j 1.0.3\par
\par
/*\par
 *                                 Apache License\par
 *                           Version 2.0, January 2004\par
 *                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/\par
 *\par
 *   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION\par
 *\par
 *   1. Definitions.\par
 *\par
 *      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,\par
 *      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.\par
 *\par
 *      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by\par
 *      the copyright owner that is granting the License.\par
 *\par
 *      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all\par
 *      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common\par
 *      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,\par
 *      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the\par
 *      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or\par
 *      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the\par
 *      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.\par
 *\par
 *      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity\par
 *      exercising permissions granted by this License.\par
 *\par
 *      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,\par
 *      including but not limited to software source code, documentation\par
 *      source, and configuration files.\par
 *\par
 *      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical\par
 *      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but\par
 *      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,\par
 *      and conversions to other media types.\par
 *\par
 *      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or\par
 *      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a\par
 *      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work\par
 *      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).\par
 *\par
 *      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object\par
 *      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the\par
 *      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other \par
 *      modifications represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the \par
 *      purposes of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain\par
 *      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces\par
 *      of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.\par
 *\par
 *      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including\par
 *      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions\par
 *      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally\par
 *      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright  \par
 *      owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of\par
 *      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"\par
 *      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent\par
 *      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to\par
 *      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control \par
 *      systems,and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on \par
 *      behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving\par
 *      the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked\par
 *      or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as\par
 *      "Not a Contribution."\par
 *\par
 *      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity\par
 *      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and\par
 *      subsequently incorporated within the Work.\par
 *\par
 *   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of\par
 *      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,\par
 *      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable\par
 *      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,\par
 *      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the\par
 *      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.\par
 *\par
 *   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of\par
 *      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,\par
 *      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable\par
 *      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,\par
 *      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,\par
 *      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable\par
 *      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their\par
 *      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)\par
 *      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You\par
 *      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a\par
 *      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work\par
 *      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct\par
 *      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses\par
 *      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate\par
 *      as of the date such litigation is filed.\par
 *\par
 *   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the\par
 *      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without\par
 *      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You\par
 *      meet the following conditions:\par
 *\par
 *      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or\par
 *          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and\par
 *\par
 *      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices\par
 *          stating that You changed the files; and\par
 *\par
 *      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works\par
 *          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and\par
 *          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,\par
 *          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of\par
 *          the Derivative Works; and\par
 *\par
 *      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its\par
 *          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must\par
 *          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained\par
 *          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not\par
 *          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one\par
 *          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed\par
 *          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or\par
 *          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,\par
 *          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and\par
 *          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents\par
 *          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and\par
 *          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution\par
 *          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside\par
 *          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided\par
 *          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed\par
 *          as modifying the License.\par
 *\par
 *      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and\par
 *      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions\par
 *      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or\par
 *      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,\par
 *      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with\par
 *      the conditions stated in this License.\par
 *\par
 *   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,\par
 *      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work\par
 *      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of\par
 *      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.\par
 *      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify\par
 *      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed\par
 *      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.\par
 *\par
 *   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade\par
 *      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,\par
 *      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the\par
 *      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.\par
 *\par
 *   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or\par
 *      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each\par
 *      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,\par
 *      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or\par
 *      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions\par
 *      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A\par
 *      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the\par
 *      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any\par
 *      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this\par
 *      License.\par
 *\par
 *   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,\par
 *      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,\par
 *      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly\par
 *      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be\par
 *      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,\par
 *      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a\par
 *      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the\par
 *      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,\par
 *      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all\par
 *      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor\par
 *      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.\par
 *\par
 *   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing\par
 *      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,\par
 *      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,\par
 *      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this\par
 *      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only\par
 *      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf\par
 *      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,\par
 *      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability\par
 *      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason\par
 *      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.\par
 *\par
 *   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
 *\par
 */\par
\par
END OF  Apache License 2.0 NOTICES AND INFORMATION   \par
\par
BROWSERLAUNCHER CODE.  \par
\par
The Program includes the following BrowserLauncher software:\par
\par
A\'c3\'ba\tab BrowserLauncher V1.4b1\par
\par
 IBMAr is required to provide you, as the recipient of such software, with a copy of the following license from BrowserLauncher:  \par
\par
This code is Copyright 1999-2001 by Eric Albert (ejalbert@cs.stanford.edu) and may be redistributed or modified in any form without restrictions as long as the portion of this comment from this paragraph through the end of the comment is not removed.  The author requests that he be notified of any application, applet, or other binary that makes use of this code, but that's more out of curiosity than anything and is not required.  This software includes no warranty.  The author is not repsonsible for any loss of data or functionality or any adverse or unexpected effects of using this software.\par
\par
Credits:\par
Steven Spencer, JavaWorld magazine (http://www.javaworld.com/javaworld/javatips/jw-javatip66.html)\par
Thanks also to Ron B. Yeh, Eric Shapiro, Ben Engber, Paul Teitlebaum, Andrea Cantatore, Larry Barowski, Trevor Bedzek, Frank Miedrich, and Ron Rabakukk\par
\par
@author Eric Albert (ejalbert@cs.stanford.edu)\par
@version 1.4b1 (Released June 20, 2001)\par
\par
END OF BROWSERLAUNCHER NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
\par
\par
PNGIMAGE PRODUCER CODE:\par
\par
The INSTALLANYWHERE CODE includes PNGImage Producer V0.88.  The following are notices and other important information with respect to this third party code.\par
\par
/* Copyright (c) 1997, Jason Marshall.  All Rights Reserved\par
*\par
*  The author makes no representations or warranties regarding the suitability,\par
*  reliability or stability of this code.  This code is provided AS IS.  The\par
*  author shall not be liable for any damages suffered as a result of using,\par
*  modifying or redistributing this software or any derivitives thereof.\par
*  Permission to use, reproduce, modify and/or (re)distribute this software is\par
*  hereby granted.\par
*/\par
\par
END OF PNGIMAGE PRODUCER NOTICES AND INFORMATION FOR THE INSTALLANYWHERE CODE\par
\par
\par
HSQL CODE.  The Program includes the following HSQL Development Group software:  \par
\par
A\'c3\'ba\tab HSQLDB V1.7.1\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from the HSQL Development Group:  \par
\par
/* Copyright (c) 2001-2002, The HSQL Development Group\par
 * All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions  are met:\par
 *\par
 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this\par
 * list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,\par
 * this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation\par
 * and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 *\par
 * Neither the name of the HSQL Development Group nor the names of its\par
 * contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this\par
 * software without specific prior written permission.\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"\par
 * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
 * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL HSQL DEVELOPMENT GROUP, HSQLDB.ORG, \par
 * OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, \par
 * EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, \par
 * PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;\par
 * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND\par
 * ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT\par
 * (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS\par
 * SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 */\par
\par
END OF HSQL NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
\par
ICU4J CODE.  The Program includes the following ICU4J Development Group software:  \par
\par
A\'c3\'ba\tab ICU4J V3.6.1\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from ICU:  \par
ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
Copyright (c) 1995-2010 International Business Machines Corporation and others \par
All rights reserved. \par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. \par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. \par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder. \par
\par
The source code for ICU is available on the Web from: http://www.icu-project.org/\par
\par
\par
UNICODE, INC. LICENSE AGREEMENT - DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE\par
\par
    Unicode Data Files include all data files under the directories\par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and\par
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/ . Unicode Software includes any source code published in the Unicode Standard or under the directories\par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and\par
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/.\par
\par
    NOTICE TO USER: Carefully read the following legal agreement. BY\par
DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING UNICODE INC.'S DATA FILES ("DATA FILES"), AND/OR SOFTWARE ("SOFTWARE"), YOU UNEQUIVOCALLY ACCEPT, AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY, ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE, DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, DISTRIBUTE OR USE THE DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.\par
\par
    COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
    Copyright A,Ac 1991-2009 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved. Distributed under the Terms of Use in http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.\par
\par
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of the Unicode data files and any associated documentation (the "Data Files") or Unicode software and any associated documentation (the "Software") to deal in the Data Files or Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the Data Files or\par
Software are furnished to do so, provided that (a) the above copyright notice(s)and this permission notice appear with all copies of the Data Files or Software, (b) both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in associated documentation, and (c) there is clear notice in each modified Data File or in the Software as well as in the documentation associated with the Data File(s) or Software that the data or software has been modified.\par
\par
    THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.\par
\par
    Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in these Data Files or Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder.\par
\par
\par
END OF ICU NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
\par
JTOpen Source Code.  The Program includes the following ICU4J Development Group software:  \par
\par
A\'c3\'ba\tab JTOpen 5.1.1 \par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from JTOpen:  \par
\par
\par
IBM Public License\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the IBM Public License (source code available via the indicated URL): \par
\par
\par
JTOPEN V5.1.1 (http://sourceforge.net/projects/jt400/)\par
END OF JTOPEN NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
\par
\par
JSch Source Code.  The Program includes the following JSch Development Group software:  \par
\par
A\'c3\'ba\tab JSch 0.1.41\par
A\'c3\'ba\tab JSch 0.1.45 \par
\par
Copyright (c) 2002-2011 Atsuhiko Yamanaka, JCraft,Inc. \par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\par
     this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright \par
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in \par
     the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
  3. The names of the authors may not be used to endorse or promote products\par
     derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,\par
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL JCRAFT,\par
INC. OR ANY CONTRIBUTORS TO THIS SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,\par
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA,\par
OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF\par
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING\par
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,\par
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF JSch NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
\par
\par
END OF NOITCES AND INFORMATION FOR InstallAnywhere 2012\par
\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
UnRAR - free utility for RAR archives\par
License for use and distribution of FREE portable version\par
\par
The source code of UnRAR utility is freeware. This means:\par
\par
 1. All copyrights to RAR and the utility UnRAR are exclusively owned by the author - Alexander Roshal.\par
\par
 2. The UnRAR sources may be used in any software to handle RAR archives without limitations free of charge, but cannot be used\par
      to re-create the RAR compression algorithm, which is proprietary.  Distribution of modified UnRAR sources in separate form or as a\par
      part of other software is permitted, provided that it is clearly stated in the documentation and source comments that the code may\par
      not be used to develop a RAR (WinRAR) compatible archiver.\par
\par
 3. The UnRAR utility may be freely distributed. It is allowed to distribute UnRAR inside of other software packages.\par
\par
 4. THE RAR ARCHIVER AND THE UnRAR UTILITY ARE DISTRIBUTED "AS IS".  NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND IS EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED.  YOU USE AT \par
      YOUR OWN RISK. THE AUTHOR WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR DATA LOSS, DAMAGES, LOSS OF PROFITS OR ANY OTHER KIND OF LOSS WHILE USING\par
      OR MISUSING THIS SOFTWARE.\par
\par
 5. Installing and using the UnRAR utility signifies acceptance of these terms and conditions of the license.\par
\par
 6. If you don't agree with terms of the license you must remove UnRAR files from your storage devices and cease to use the utility.\par
\par
=========================================================\par
\par
APACHE CODE:  See "Apache License Version 2.0,  January 2004" above for\par
RARFileObject.java\par
RARFileProvider.java\par
RARFileSystem.java\par
\par
END OF UNRAR NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
\par
=========================================================\par
XSTREAM   The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the XStream License:XStream V1.3.1\par
XStream is open source software, made available under a BSD license. \par
Copyright (c) 2003-2006, Joe Walnes\par
Copyright (c) 2006-2007, XStream Committers\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of\par
conditions and the following disclaimer. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce\par
the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in\par
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
Neither the name of XStream nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse\par
or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written\par
permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY\par
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES\par
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT\par
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,\par
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED\par
TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR\par
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN\par
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY\par
WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH\par
DAMAGE.\par
\par
\par
END OF XSTREAM NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
\par
=========================================================\par
\par
All trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners. \par
\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
END OF NOTICES AND INFORMATION FOR IBM ENTERPRISE CONTENT MANAGEMENT TEXT SEARCH V2.1\par
\par
=========================================================\par
\par
IBM Global Security Toolkit v8\par
\par
NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
\par
The Program includes the following components:\par
\par
for IBM Global Security Toolkit v8\par
\par
* OpenSSL 0.98e\par
* zlib 1.2.3\par
* ICU4C 3.8.1\par
\par
See OpenSSL notice above\par
\par
See zlib notice above\par
\par
See ICU notice above\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
END OF NOTICES FOR : IBM Global Security Toolkit v8\par
\par
=========================================================\par
\par
IBM General Parallel File System (GPFS) 3.5\par
\par
\par
Net-SNMP License\par
\par
Various copyrights apply to this package, listed in various separate\par
parts below.  Please make sure that you read all the parts.\par
\par
---- Part 1: CMU/UCD copyright notice: (BSD like) -----\par
\par
\par
       Copyright 1989, 1991, 1992 by Carnegie Mellon University\par
\par
\tab\tab  \tab\tab    Derivative Work - 1996, 1998-2000\par
Copyright 1996, 1998-2000 The Regents of the University of California\par
\par
\tab\tab  \tab\tab  \tab\tab   All Rights Reserved\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its\par
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,\par
provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and\par
that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in\par
supporting documentation, and that the name of CMU and The Regents of\par
the University of California not be used in advertising or publicity\par
pertaining to distribution of the software without specific written\par
permission.\par
\par
CMU AND THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA DISCLAIM ALL\par
WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED\par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL CMU OR\par
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,\par
INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING\par
FROM THE LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF\par
CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN\par
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.\par
\par
\par
---- Part 2: Networks Associates Technology, Inc copyright notice (BSD) -----\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2001-2003, Networks Associates Technology, Inc\par
All rights reserved.\par
 \par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
 \par
*  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\par
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 \par
*  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 \par
*  Neither the name of the Networks Associates Technology, Inc nor the\par
   names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote\par
   products derived from this software without specific prior written\par
   permission.\par
 \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS\par
IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,\par
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR\par
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,\par
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,\par
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;\par
OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,\par
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR\par
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF\par
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
---- Part 3: Cambridge Broadband Ltd. copyright notice (BSD) -----\par
\par
Portions of this code are copyright (c) 2001-2003, Cambridge Broadband Ltd.\par
All rights reserved.\par
 \par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
 \par
*  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\par
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 \par
*  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 \par
*  The name of Cambridge Broadband Ltd. may not be used to endorse or\par
   promote products derived from this software without specific prior\par
   written permission.\par
 \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER ``AS IS'' AND ANY\par
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER BE\par
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR\par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF\par
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR\par
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,\par
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE\par
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN\par
IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
\par
---- Part 4: Sun Microsystems, Inc. copyright notice (BSD) -----\par
\par
Copyright Ac 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc., 4150 Network Circle, Santa Clara, \par
California 95054, U.S.A. All rights reserved.\par
\par
Use is subject to license terms below.\par
\par
This distribution may include materials developed by third parties.\par
\par
Sun, Sun Microsystems, the Sun logo and Solaris are trademarks or registered \par
trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
*  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\par
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
*  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
*  Neither the name of the Sun Microsystems, Inc. nor the\par
    names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote\par
    products derived from this software without specific prior written\par
    permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS\par
IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,\par
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR\par
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,\par
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,\par
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;\par
OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,\par
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR\par
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF\par
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
---- Part 5: Sparta, Inc copyright notice (BSD) -----\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2003-2009, Sparta, Inc\par
All rights reserved.\par
 \par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
 \par
*  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\par
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 \par
*  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 \par
*  Neither the name of Sparta, Inc nor the names of its contributors may\par
   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software\par
   without specific prior written permission.\par
 \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS\par
IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,\par
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR\par
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,\par
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,\par
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;\par
OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,\par
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR\par
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF\par
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
---- Part 6: Cisco/BUPTNIC copyright notice (BSD) -----\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2004, Cisco, Inc and Information Network\par
Center of Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications.\par
All rights reserved.\par
 \par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
 \par
*  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\par
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 \par
*  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 \par
*  Neither the name of Cisco, Inc, Beijing University of Posts and\par
   Telecommunications, nor the names of their contributors may\par
   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software\par
   without specific prior written permission.\par
 \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS\par
IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,\par
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR\par
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,\par
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,\par
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;\par
OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,\par
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR\par
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF\par
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
---- Part 7: Fabasoft R&D Software GmbH & Co KG copyright notice (BSD) -----\par
\par
Copyright (c) Fabasoft R&D Software GmbH & Co KG, 2003\par
oss@fabasoft.com\par
Author: Bernhard Penz \par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
*  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\par
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
*  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
\par
*  The name of Fabasoft R&D Software GmbH & Co KG or any of its subsidiaries, \par
   brand or product names may not be used to endorse or promote products \par
   derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER ``AS IS'' AND ANY\par
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER BE\par
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR\par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF\par
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR\par
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,\par
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE\par
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN\par
IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
---- Part 8: Apple Inc. copyright notice (BSD) -----\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2007 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without  \par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions  \par
are met:\par
\par
1.  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright  \par
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
2.  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above  \par
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following  \par
disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided  \par
with the distribution.\par
3.  Neither the name of Apple Inc. ("Apple") nor the names of its  \par
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived  \par
from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY APPLE AND ITS CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND  \par
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,  \par
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A  \par
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL APPLE OR ITS  \par
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,  \par
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT  \par
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF  \par
USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND  \par
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,  \par
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT  \par
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF  \par
SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
---- Part 9: ScienceLogic, LLC copyright notice (BSD) -----\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2009, ScienceLogic, LLC\par
All rights reserved.\par
 \par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are\par
met:\par
 \par
*  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\par
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 \par
*  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 \par
*  Neither the name of ScienceLogic, LLC nor the names of its\par
   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived\par
   from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
 \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS\par
``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR\par
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT\par
HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,\par
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,\par
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS\par
OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND\par
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR\par
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE\par
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH\par
DAMAGE.\par
\par
------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
\par
OpenSSL \par
\par
\par
\par
/* ====================================================================\par
 * Copyright (c) 1998-2011 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 *\par
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in\par
 *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
 *    distribution.\par
 *\par
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this\par
 *    software must display the following acknowledgment:\par
 *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project\par
 *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"\par
 *\par
 * 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to\par
 *    endorse or promote products derived from this software without\par
 *    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact\par
 *    openssl-core@openssl.org.\par
 *\par
 * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"\par
 *    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written\par
 *    permission of the OpenSSL Project.\par
 *\par
 * 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following\par
 *    acknowledgment:\par
 *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project\par
 *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY\par
 * EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
 * PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR\par
 * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,\par
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT\par
 * NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;\par
 * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)\par
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,\par
 * STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)\par
 * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED\par
 * OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 * ====================================================================\par
 *\par
 * This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young\par
 * (eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim\par
 * Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).\par
 *\par
 */\par
\par
 Original SSLeay License\par
 -----------------------\par
\par
/* Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)\par
 * All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * This package is an SSL implementation written\par
 * by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).\par
 * The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.\par
 *\par
 * This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as\par
 * the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions\par
 * apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA,\par
 * lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation\par
 * included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright terms\par
 * except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).\par
 *\par
 * Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in\par
 * the code are not to be removed.\par
 * If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution\par
 * as the author of the parts of the library used.\par
 * This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or\par
 * in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software\par
 *    must display the following acknowledgement:\par
 *    "This product includes cryptographic software written by\par
 *     Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)"\par
 *    The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the library\par
 *    being used are not cryptographic related :-).\par
 * 4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from\par
 *    the apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement:\par
 *    "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND\par
 * ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
 * ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
 * FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
 * DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS\par
 * OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)\par
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT\par
 * LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY\par
 * OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
 * SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 *\par
 * The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or\par
 * derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be\par
 * copied and put under another distribution licence\par
 * [including the GNU Public Licence.]\par
 */\par
\par
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
OpenPegasus\par
\par
/%LICENSE////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\par
//\par
// Licensed to The Open Group (TOG) under one or more contributor license\par
// agreements.  Refer to the OpenPegasusNOTICE.txt file distributed with\par
// this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.\par
// Each contributor licenses this file to you under the OpenPegasus Open\par
// Source License; you may not use this file except in compliance with the\par
// License.\par
//\par
// Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a\par
// copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),\par
// to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation\par
// the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,\par
// and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the\par
// Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
//\par
// The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included\par
// in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
//\par
// THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS\par
// OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
// MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.\par
// IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY\par
// CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,\par
// TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE\par
// SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
//\par
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\par
//\par
\par
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
GPFS for Windows on x86\par
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
Copyright (c) 1995-2011 International Business Machines Corporation and others \par
All rights reserved. \par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. \par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. \par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder. \par
\par
All trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners. \par
\par
UNICODE, INC. LICENSE AGREEMENT - DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE\par
\par
    Unicode Data Files include all data files under the directories\par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and\par
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/. Unicode Data Files do not include PDF\par
online code charts under the directory http://www.unicode.org/Public/.\par
Software includes any source code published in the Unicode Standard or under\par
the directories http://www.unicode.org/Public/,\par
http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/.\par
\par
    NOTICE TO USER: Carefully read the following legal agreement. BY\par
DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING UNICODE INC.'S DATA FILES\par
("DATA FILES"), AND/OR SOFTWARE ("SOFTWARE"), YOU UNEQUIVOCALLY ACCEPT, AND\par
AGREE TO BE BOUND BY, ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF\par
YOU DO NOT AGREE, DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, DISTRIBUTE OR USE THE DATA\par
FILES OR SOFTWARE.\par
\par
    COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
    Copyright Ac 1991-2011 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved. Distributed under\par
the Terms of Use in http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.\par
\par
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a\par
copy of the Unicode data files and any associated documentation (the "Data\par
Files") or Unicode software and any associated documentation (the "Software")\par
to deal in the Data Files or Software without restriction, including without\par
limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or\par
sell copies of the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the\par
Data Files or Software are furnished to do so, provided that (a) the above\par
copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear with all copies of the\par
Data Files or Software, (b) both the above copyright notice(s) and this\par
permission notice appear in associated documentation, and (c) there is clear\par
notice in each modified Data File or in the Software as well as in the\par
documentation associated with the Data File(s) or Software that the data or\par
software has been modified.\par
\par
    THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY\par
KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD\par
PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN\par
THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR\par
PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS\par
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE\par
DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.\par
\par
    Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall\par
not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other\par
dealings in these Data Files or Software without prior written authorization\par
of the copyright holder.\par
\par
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
OFED Header Files\par
\par
OpenFabrics Enterprise Distribution (OFED) is a downloadable, networking\par
open-source software package that implements Remote Direct Memory Access\par
(RDMA) and kernel bypass mechanisms to deliver high-efficiency computing,\par
wire-speed messaging, ultra-low microsecond latencies and fast I/O for\par
servers, block storage and file systems. OFED downloads are available for\par
Linux (OFED) through GPL or BSD licensing, and for Windows (winOFED)\par
through BSD licensing.\par
THIS IS THE LINUX STACK UNDER OPENFABRICS BSD LICENSE. Refer to the OFA\par
Downloads web pages at www.openfabrics.org for other licenses.\par
Copyright (c) 2011 Open Fabrics Alliance, Inc. All rights reserved.\par
For further information, contact [mailto:XREF].\par
This software is licensed under the OpenFabrics BSD license below:\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or\par
without modification, are permitted provided that the following\par
conditions are met:\par
- Redistributions of source code must retain the above\par
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following\par
disclaimer.\par
- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above\par
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following\par
disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials\par
provided with the distribution.\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,\par
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND\par
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS\par
BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN\par
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN\par
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE\par
SOFTWARE.\par
 \par
=========================================================\par
\par
END OF NOTICES FOR : IBM General Parallel File System (GPFS) 3.5\par
\par
========================================================================= \par
\par
END OF NOTICES AND INFORMATION FILE\par
\par
===============================================================================================================================================================================\par
End of Notices content for IBM DB2 ESE 10.5.0.3\par
===============================================================================================================================================================================\par
\par
\par
\par
L/N:  L-YMAR-A73D7D\par
D/N:  L-YMAR-A73D7D\par
P/N:  L-YMAR-A73D7D \par
\par
\par
L/N:  L-JFEL-B8HHQR\par
D/N:  L-JFEL-B8HHQR\par
P/N:  L-JFEL-B8HHQR\par
}
 